The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele will host the 55th Annual Bankers Dinner organized by The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) on Friday, November 27, 2020 at Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos at 5pm with strict adherence to the protocol against the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The event will also be transmitted simultaneously through Zoom teleconferencing to accommodate participation across the globe. In the statement, Mr. Emefiele will be delivering a keynote address where he is expected to present the Banking Industry’s score card for the current year as well as provide economic insight into the monetary policy and regulatory direction for the coming year.  The Executive Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and other state Governors are expected to grace the occasion as special guests of honour.  Other top dignitaries expected at the Occasion include Alhaji Aliko Dangote, GCON, President/Chairman, Dangote Group; Mr. Fola Adeola, FCIB, OFR, mni, Chairman, Fate Foundation, Mr. Abimbola Ogunbanjo, President, Nigerian Stock Exchange; Chief Michael Ade-Ojo, OON, Chairman, Elizade Nigeria Limited; Dr. Tony Elumelu, Chairman, Heirs Holdings; Alhaji Umaru Ibrahim, FCIB, Managing Director/Chief Executive, NDIC; all Deputy Governors and Directors of Central Bank of Nigeria; all Chairmen and Managing Directors/CEOs of banks; Mr. Wale Tinubu, Chairman, Oando Plc; Mr. Segun Ogunsanya, Managing Director/Chief Executive, Airtel Nigeria Ltd among others. READ ALSO THIS: CIBN, CBN advocate for leveraging technology to improve the administration of Justice Process in Nigeria Mr. Bayo Olugbemi, FCIB, President/Chairman of Council, CIBN, will deliver the Welcome Address while Mr. ‘Seye Awojobi, FCIB, Registrar/CEO, CIBN give the vote of thanks.  The Organising Committee of this year’s edition of the Dinner is chaired by the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bank Plc, Mr. Abubakar Sulieman.  The Annual Bankers’ Dinner is a thought-led socio-economic event of the Industry and being the biggest high-profile social forum annually organized by the Institute for the banking and finance industry, distinguished personalities including captains of industry, top Executives of Banks and non-bank institutions including CEOs and Chairmen, Diplomatic Missions, top government functionaries, legislators, accomplished businessmen, academics and other stakeholders are usually gathered to interact and network under a pleasant social setting. Over 1,500 participants, across the world are expected to participate both physically and virtually at this year’s edition of the Dinner, which promises to unique. 