Consumers have commended Mouka for its delivery of quality products that improve wellness and other worthy initiatives in line with its mantra of adding comfort to life. They also applauded the frontline company for its leading role in the manufacturing of mattresses and other bedding products which cater to the needs of the different segments of the society, to make quality sleep possible. The commendation came on the heels of the advocacy by the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP) that quality sleep helps in boosting the immune system to help fight against infections like the coronavirus (COVID-19). A consumer, Mrs Funmi Ayodele, who resides in the Ikeja area of Lagos State, eulogised the company for its innovative sleep solutions which have helped in improving her sleep pattern and health. She declared that Mouka has continually engaged consumers as part of its stakeholders for a more robust understanding of their needs and preferences. This is proof of the company’s determination in promoting consumer wellbeing and in the delivering of quality products. Another consumer, Kemi Funso, a business tycoon, praised the socially responsible company for listening to the yearnings of consumers through its portfolio of products that are quite affordable and good value for money. “I have been using Mouka brands for a long time, and the quality has remained the same. Its products are unique and equal to none in the mattresses and beddings industry,” she affirmed. Attesting to Mouka’s matchless brands, a medical practitioner, Dr Ngozi Chinedu, said Mouka, being a consumer-centric company, has embarked on laudable initiatives during the pandemic, thus demonstrating that the wellbeing of Nigerians is at the core of its mission. She stated that the company is genuinely committed to its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives, especially during a crisis. This was demonstrated by the donations to the Lagos, Ogun and Oyo States isolation centres. Likewise its assistance of victims of Abule Ado gas pipeline explosion with donations of Mouka mattresses. An accountant with one of the multinationals, Henry Akintunde, thanked the leading company for its collaboration with the NSP in promoting healthy sleep culture among Nigerians. This initiative has created awareness of how it enhanced the human immune system against infections. On the issue of healthy sleep, the President of the NSP, Dr Nnenna Nina Chigbo, said documented evidence shows that certain cells that help fight infections in the body increase significantly during sleep. This results in the proper functioning of the body, including the immune system, tissue healing, pain modulation, cardiovascular health, cognitive function, learning and memory. To attain these benefits, the NSP endorses Mouka sleep solutions which include Wellbeing orthopaedic mattress, Regina semi-orthopaedic mattress and Mondeo Spring mattress. The Chief Executive Officer of Mouka, Raymond Murphy, stated that the foremost company would continue to engage the consumer and other stakeholders such as its employees, business partners, agencies and media, in promoting wellbeing through quality sleep. He said Mouka in its giant stride, will keep on innovating and renovating its product portfolio to keep it exciting. This, he affirmed, would be through intensive research and development, to adequately cater to their needs and preferences.