The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, CIBN, in collaboration with the National Judicial Institute, NJI, under the auspices of the Bankers Committee of the Central Bank of Nigeria will gather key players in the Banking Industry and the Judiciary such as Judges; Legal Practitioners; Law Enforcement Agents; Legal representatives from the Deposit Money Banks and other Financial Institutions, Company Secretaries/Legal Advisers; Staff of Legal, Compliance/Enforcement Departments of Central Bank of Nigeria, Deposit Money Banks, Security Exchange Commission, Nigeria Stock Exchange, Debt Management Office, National Pension Commission and Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria and other relevant Stakeholders to deliberate on critical banking and judicial issues to mark the 20th Annual National Seminar on Banking and Allied Matters for Judges.  The Seminar with the theme: “The Judiciary and the Financial Services Industry in the New Normal: Challenges, Innovations and Regulations” will hold virtually via Zoom Teleconferencing, from November 10-11, 2020.  The programme will provide a forum for stakeholders in the Banking Industry and judges across the world to cross-fertilize ideas on contemporary banking and related judicial matters for the soundness of the banking industry, the judiciary and the development of the Nigerian economy.  Mr. Godwin Emefiele, Governor Central Bank of Nigeria;  Mr. Horacio Bernardes Neto, President, International Bar Association and Mr. Olumide Akpata, President, Nigerian Bar Association will deliver a Goodwill Message while Hon. Dr. Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, Chief Justice of Nigeria and Chairman, Board of Governors, National Judicial Institute will deliver the Keynote Address. Mr. Bayo Olugbemi, FCIB, President/Chairman of Council will present a Welcome Address.  The two bodies have assembled seasoned experts from the financial sector, the judiciary, the legal profession and the academia to address the august gathering. They include: Hon. Justice Kazeem Olanrewaju Alogba, Chief Judge of Lagos State; Hon. Justice R. I. B. Adebiyi, Lagos State Judiciary; Mr. ‘Laoye Jaiyeola, FCIB, Past President, CIBN/Chief Executive Officer, the Nigerian Economic Summit Group; Professor Akin Oyebode, MON, SAN, Professor of International Law and  Jurisprudence, University of Lagos; Professor Fabian Ajogwu, SAN, FCIArb, Principal, Kenna Partners & Professor of Business Law, Lagos Business School; Dr. Cosmos Maduka, CO, Founder/CEO, Coscharis Group; Mr. Bello Hassan, Director, Banking Supervision, Central Bank of Nigeria; Mr. Babatunde Irukera, Chief Executive, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission; Mr. Kemi Pinheiro, SAN, FCIArb, FloD; Principal Partner, Pinheiro LP/Chairman, Nigeria Wire and Cable Plc; Mr. Kelly Mogbo, Company Secretary & Legal Adviser, Nigeria Mortgage Refinance Co and Mr. Olofinsola, Partner, Human Capital Consulting, West Africa Deloitte & Touche. Others are Mr. George Etomi, Founder and Principal Partner, George Etomi & Partner; Mr. Magnus Nnoka, President, Risk Management Association of Nigeria & Chief Risk Officer, Coronation Merchant Bank; Mr. Taiwo Oyedele, West Africa Tax Leader, PwC Nigeria; Mr. Monday Oyekachi Ubani, Principal Partner, Ubani & Co./Former 2nd Vice President, Nigerian Bar Association; Mrs. Temitayo Adegoke, Chief Legal Counsel and Company Secretary, Sterling Bank Plc; Mrs. Oluwafunke Amobi, Country Head, Human Capital, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc; Professor Sola Fajana, Professor of Labour and Human Relations, University of Lagos; Ms. Rosie Ebe-Arthur, Group Head, Human Resource, First Bank of Nigeria; Professor Olusesan Oliyide, Professor of Business law, Olabisi Onabanjo University, Mr. Lookman Durosinmi-Etti, Founding Partner and Senior Partner, Jackson, Etti & Edu; Mr. Olumide Olayinka, Partner & Head, Risk Consulting, Innovation and Data Analytics, KPMG Nigeria; Mrs. Funmi Adedibu, Company Secretary/Group Legal Counsel, FCMB Group Plc and Mr. Niyi Olopade, SAN, Managing Partner, Niyi Olopade & Co Advert On the list of Sub-Themes to be discussed are: “Virtual Court Sitting and the Implication for the Banking Industry”; “The New Normal and Employment Contract in the Banking Industry: Challenges and Way Forward”; “Global Standing Instruction (GSI) Mandate: Implications for Banks, Customers, and the Judiciary”; “Digital Economy and Its Risk Implications”; “Garnishee Proceedings: Drawbacks and Way Forward”; “Remote Work: Impact on Banking & Judicial Processes and Operations”; “Banking Regulations and Courts: Way forward in the Next Normal” and “Stamp Duty and its Implications for Banks and Customers”  