To pursue her ultimate goal of adding extra value and giving back to teeming loyal consumers, Honda is partnering with Providence Hotel and Enyo Retail and Supply Limited, an indigenous oil and gas marketing company, in her new ‘Enjoy Unlimited Luxury’ promo.L-R: Mr Bello Sanni, Marketing Manager, Honda Place; Mr Fegho Umunubo, CEO, XM Solution; Mr Deepark, Sales Director, Honda Place; Mr Banji Oyeleye, Acting GM, Providence Hotel by Mantis; Mr Remi Adams, Manager, Sales Marketing & Logistics; and Tolu Ashiru, Territory Lead for South West, Enyo Retail and Supply. At the just concluded press conference for Honda/Providence Partnership held recently. Explaining all details about the promo  before the formal signing of the agreement, the Sales & Marketing Manager, Honda Automobile Western Africa Limited, Remi Adams said :  “Once a Honda Pilot is bought at the cost of  N27Million against the initial cost of N30 million,  our customer gets a gift from Honda, which is a voucher for 2 years free car servicing, which can be used to service your car anywhere in Nigeria, a velox card loaded with N200,00  for the purchase of fuel at any Enyo filling station  in addition to two nights of  luxury life provided by The Providence Hotel by Mantis” The event which had in attendance the representatives of the three organizations and selected members of the press was held last week at Providence Hotel, GRA, Ikeja, Lagos where the new Honda Pilot was on display. According to Mr, Adams, “the vehicle comes with two years warranty and to avoid any form of ambiguity, you issue the voucher the way you do your cheque, a copy for customer, another copy workshop dropped at where the car is serviced.’’ In addition, he further explained, ‘’ the customer will enjoy the luxury that Providence Hotel offers. So you get a weekend treat which extend to your spouse so we have made preparations for two people. You can have access to Providence luxury room for two nights and a special champagne dinner to wrap up the entire stay. For the fuel card, it is Enyo Velox card with N200,000 fuel which can last for more than a year. The moment you use it up the pre-loaded amount, you can continue to fund it since it is not going to be deactivated when you use up the money.’’ Explaining more on how the Velox card works , the Territory Lead, Southwest, Enyo Retails & Supply Limited, Toluwalashe Ashiru said, ‘’ one of the ways we actually set ourselves apart in the industry is to ensure that along our service offerings, we put an element of technology in all our services offering. One of our technologies is this fuel management card, Velox. When you sign up for this card, it is a wallet solution. A profile is created for you to have your own dashboard that allows you to personalize your fueling experience.’’ Also speaking on the unique qualities of Honda Pilot SUV Mr Dee Park, Sales Director, Honda Place revealed that the vehicle is between a crossover and minivan, and it offers three rows of comfortable seats for up to eight people with enough cargo space for all life’s accumulated stuff. He also explained that every Pilot is powered by 3.5 litters V-6 that makes 280 horsepower and the brand is among one of the safest crossover on the road. He further explained that, “Pilot is the highest of our products in terms of ranking and we are offering free vehicle service, such that you can get your Honda Pilot serviced at no cost at any of our designated points in the country” Mr Banji Oyeleye, Acting GM, Providence Hotel by Mantis, also gave an insight into the core value of The Mantis brand which is a sustainable relationship between man and nature at all times. 