…Considers Adoption for Efficient Public, Civil Service The Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR) has commended the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for Internal Open Resourcing (IOR) initiative, describing it as a veritable tool required by the nation at this time to bridge the skills gap in both the public and civil services.The Director General of BPSR, Dr. Dasuki I. Arabi, gave the commendation at the October edition of the BPSR Lunchtime Reforms Seminar which held recently at the Auditorium of the Federal Ministry of Finance with Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari as Guest Speaker. A press release by the spokesman of the Corporation, Dr. Kennie Obateru, described the NNPC Internal Open Resourcing initiative as a human capital development plan by which talents are sourced from within the rank and file of the NNPC through a competitive process to bridge managerial skills gap. Speaking after an exhaustive presentation on the topic: “Current Reforms in the Petroleum Sector and their Impact on Nigeria – The Role of NNPC” by the NNPC helmsman who was represented by the Corporation’s Group General Manager, Corporate Planning & Strategy, Mrs. Oritsemeyiwa Eyesan, the BPSR boss said he would recommend aspects of the NNPC IOR initiative to the Head of Civil Service of the Federation for adoption in the ongoing civil service reforms. “We have seen the successes in NNPC and that is why we have chosen to celebrate them in this seminar. We at the BPSR and the Head of Civil Service of the Federation have taken note of your wonderful innovations. As we go on to implement the Cadre 4 of the Strategic Plan for Public Service Reforms, I’m sure we will take quite a lot from you”, Dr. Arabi said. The BPSR boss said Nigeria relies on the landmark innovations by reputable organizations like NNPC to achieve the aspiration of being among the best 20 civil services in the world by 2025. He listed some of NNPC’s reforms in the oil and gas sector to include: Introduction of cost reflective pricing of petroleum products, deepening of transparency in procurement processes in the petroleum sector and enhancement of local content in the oil and gas industry, stressing that there was need for the National Assembly to fast-track the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) into law, to enable the country reap the full benefits of its hydrocarbon resources. Earlier in his presentation, the Group Managing Director of NNPC said Corporation was focused on implementing innovations that would enhance its operations and bottom-line such as increasing crude oil production and reserve, extending gas footprint to stimulate industrialization, and boosting local refining capacity. He said NNPC was also driving the automation of its processes as part of reforms, aimed at discouraging discretionary approvals and to further deepen the culture of transparency in the system.