Customers on GOtv Max and Jolli get to experience the best of live football action from the 2020/21 Premier League, La Liga and Serie A seasons on SuperSport, the home of football. Matches are scheduled for 21-23 November 2020. Manchester United returns to Premier League action by welcoming West Brom to Old Trafford on Saturday at 9pm. United beat Everton 3-1 before the international break, but the 20-time champions are still sitting in a lowly 14th position. Their opponents, meanwhile, are slightly worse off and find themselves in the bottom three and still without a victory this season. The Red Devils do have some key concerns to deal with ahead of the match as Marcus Rashford is a doubt due to a shoulder problem. The match will be live on SS Football (channel 31). Also, on Saturday, Aston Villa will face Brighton at 4pm, also on SS Football. Watch football in the language you understand on SuperSport, the only place to get English commentary from the legendary La Liga. The top pick of fixtures for this round of La Liga action sees Atletico Madrid host Barcelona at the Wanda Metropolitano Stadium on the evening of Saturday 21 November at 9pmlive on SS La Liga (channel 32). While the Rojiblancos have looked their usual gritty and resilient selves, the Blaugrana have been inconsistent and unpredictable. This has put the pressure squarely on Barca coach, Ronald Koeman, who needs his top players – such as Lionel Messi – to step up their games and drag the Catalan giants back towards the top of La Liga’s standings. Atletico, meanwhile, can be excited about the form of rising star Joao Felix. The 20-year-old Portuguese star is starting to look like the real deal after a somewhat underwhelming 2019-20 in Madrid. Other La Liga matches to look out for this weekend is the clash between Osasuna and Huesca on Friday 20 November at 9pm on SS La Liga and SS Football. More on Saturday is Villarreal vs Real Madrid at 4:15pm and Sevilla vs Celta Vigo at 6:30pm, both on SS La Liga (channel 32). On Sunday 22 November, La Liga continues on GOtv with Granada vs Valladolid at 6:30pm live on SS La Liga and SS Football (channel 32&31). As far as Serie A is concerned, the top clash this weekend sees Napoli host Milan at Stadio San Paulo on the evening of Sunday 22 November, at 8:45pm on SS Select 1 (channel 33). These two title hopefuls duke it out in a match which will feature some major African talent, including Kalidou Koulibaly, Victor Osimhen, Ismael Bennacer and Franck Kessie. On Saturday, the Italian Serie A will see matches between Sepzia and Atlanta at 6pm on SS Select 1 and SS Football (channel 33&31) and Juventus vs Cagliari at 8:45pm on SS Select 1 (channel 33). More on Sunday 22 November on Serie A is Fiorentina vs Benevento at 12:30pm on SS Select 1(channel33). Inter Milan is set to clash with Torino at 3pm on SS Select 1(channel 33), while Sampdoria faces Bologna at 3pm on SS Football (channel 31) SuperSport provides the best coverage of international football in the country. Viewers on DStv and GOtv can see all their favourite stars from the African continent dominating in leagues across Europe. Reconnect now on the GOtv Max package to have the full experience as well as access to exclusive sports, movies, documentary, kiddies’ channels and much more for the price of N3,600! Also, starting Saturday, 21 November, customers can get a GOtv decoder and antennae with one month on Jolli package at N8,400. GOtv Jolli package gives you a wide access to channels such as SS Football, Fox, Da Vinci, MTV Base, Telemundo, AM Family, TNT, Discovery Family, CBS Reality, ROK 2 and others for N2,460. You can make use of the MyGOtv app from the comfort of your homes to upgrade or reconnect. Don’t miss the 2020-21 football season on SuperSport on DStv and GOtv. Visit www.dstv.com and www.gotvafrica.com to subscribe or upgrade, and join in on the excitement. And while you’re on the move, you can stream matches on DStv.