The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele will be present the Banking Industry’s score card for the current year as well as provide economic insight into the monetary policy and regulatory direction for the coming year during the 55th Annual Bankers Dinner.  In the statement, Mr. Emefiele is expected host the 55th Annual Bankers Dinner organized by The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) on Friday, November 27, 2020 at Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos at 5pm with strict adherence to the protocol against the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The event will also be transmitted simultaneously through Zoom teleconferencing to accommodate participation across the globe.  The host governor, the Executive Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu is expected to grace the occasion as special guests of honour along with other state Governors. READ ALSO THIS: EMEFIELE TO HOST CIBN 55TH ANNUAL BANKERS DINNER Other top dignitaries expected at the Occasion are: Alhaji Aliko Dangote, GCON, President/Chairman, Dangote Group; Mr. Fola Adeola, FCIB, OFR, mni, Chairman, Fate Foundation, Mr. Abimbola Ogunbanjo, President, Nigerian Stock Exchange; Chief Michael Ade-Ojo, OON, Chairman, Elizade Nigeria Limited; Dr. Tony Elumelu, Chairman, Heirs Holdings; Alhaji Umaru Ibrahim, FCIB, Managing Director/Chief Executive, NDIC; all Deputy Governors and Directors of Central Bank of Nigeria; all Chairmen and Managing Directors/CEOs of banks; Mr. Wale Tinubu, Chairman, Oando Plc; Mr. Segun Ogunsanya, Managing Director/Chief Executive, Airtel Nigeria Ltd among others.  Mr. Bayo Olugbemi, FCIB, President/Chairman of Council, CIBN, will deliver the Welcome Address while Mr. ‘Seye Awojobi, FCIB, Registrar/CEO, CIBN give the vote of thanks.  The Organising Committee of this year’s edition of the Dinner is chaired by the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bank Plc, Mr. Abubakar Sulieman.  The Annual Bankers’ Dinner is a thought-led socio-economic event of the Industry and being the biggest high-profile social forum annually organized by the Institute for the banking and finance industry, distinguished personalities including captains of industry, top Executives of Banks and non-bank institutions including CEOs and Chairmen, Diplomatic Missions, top government functionaries, legislators, accomplished businessmen, academics and other stakeholders are usually gathered to interact and network under a pleasant social setting. Over 1,500 participants, across the world are expected to participate both physically and virtually at this year’s edition of the Dinner, which promises to unique.  