The   4IR is the information and digital economy age which if properly enhanced and exploited can serve as a major revenue earner for the Country in the post-oil era. The Executive Vice Chairman (EVC)/CEO, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor  Umar Danbatta, said Over the years, Countries and societies have evolved by finding new ways of doing things to ensure economic sustainability. This led to the first, second and third industrial revolutions. Currently countries are exploiting the fourth industrial revolution in order to diversify their economies, he added. EVC who stated this in his speech delivered at two days of 2020 Hybrid (Online/Onsite) Annual Directors Conference (ADC) Organised by the Institute Of Directors (IOD) with the Theme: “Ethical leadership as an instrument for national sustainability in the post-oil Nigerian economy. A public sector perspective” that commenced from Tuesday through to Wednesday, November 3-4, 2020  Prof Danbatta pointed out that the fourth industrial revolution (4IR), which has also been referred to as 4IR or Industry 4.0 describes the age of intelligence and encompasses technologies like high-speed mobile Internet, Artificial Intelligence, automation, the use of big data analytics and cloud computing. However, he said the major constraint in Nigeria facing the 4IR is the inadequacy of digital skills, infrastructure deficit, enabling environment and inadequate infrastructure.  “The   4IR is the information and digital economy age which if properly enhanced and exploited can serve as a major revenue earner for the Country in the post-oil era. This is because while natural resources such as oil, gas, etc are finite, data and information are infinite. Furthermore, the possibilities provided by the 4IR are limitless and can generate employment for Nigeria’s teeming youth population. Therefore, in order to achieve economic growth using the 4IR there is the need for ethical leadership.   “Leadership is the art of motivating a group of people to act towards achieving a common goal. There can never be leadership without a leader. So who is a leader? According to Nelson Mandela “a leader is like a shepherd he stays behind the flock, letting the most nimble go out ahead, whereupon the others follow, not realizing that all along they are being directed from behind. “Douglas Macarthur posited that a leader is the one that has the confidence to stand alone, the courage to make tough decisions, and the compassion to listen to the needs of others. He does not set out to be a leader, but becomes one by the quality of his actions and the integrity of his intent.”  In the same vein, Babatunde Raji Fashola described a leader as “one capable of    showing clear sensibility to the feelings of the led about critical issues whose influence is not necessarily exerted by his personal authority but by being the servant of the community he leads”.  In short, a good leader is one who knows when to lead and when to step back, he noted adding that ethical leadership can be described as one, which demonstrates and promotes normatively appropriate conduct through personal actions and interpersonal relations.  He recalled that “Agriculture was the major source of Nigeria’s foreign exchange earnings prior to its independence in 1960. However, with the discovery of oil in commercial quantities in the 1970s this very important sector was relegated to the background. Currently oil revenues are dwindling worldwide due to the discovery of   alternative energy sources such as solar energy, nuclear energy and geothermal energy. This means that Nigeria cannot be solely dependent on oil earnings anymore. Consequently, the FG is looking for ways of diversifying the economy. Economic diversification is the process of shifting an economy away from a single income source toward multiple sources from a growing range of sectors and markets. This is with a view to increasing productivity, creating jobs and providing the basis for sustained economic growth.  EVC disclosed that the Federal Government (FG) has made several attempts at economic diversification by setting up manufacturing and other industries  such as the Ajaokuta steel rolling mills, tyre, textiles, fertilizer   manufacturing companies etc. but all these attempts had  little impact as majority of them have folded up, whilst others are finding it difficult to survive. The situation has been compounded by the economic recession experienced recently and the global Covid-19 pandemic which broke out in Wuhan, China in December, 2019, adversely affected the global economy and Nigeria is not exempted  He cited that the Federal Government in its bid to ensure economic growth and sustainability collaborates with the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) to discuss issues and challenges facing the development of Nigeria with a view to developing and harmonizing ideas towards diversification and sustaining the economy.  In addition, according to him, the National Sustainability Committee chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, developed a National Economic Sustainability Plan (NESP). The plan is aimed at overcoming the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, enhancing oil and non-oil revenues, creation of a financial stimulus package for the Nigerian economy, support for MSMEs and the creation of jobs amongst others. 