At C & I Leasing Plc’s Extraordinary General Meeting today, the shareholders unanimously approved of the conversion by Naoma Africa Fund, LLC (formerly Aureos Africa Fund LLC) its nominee, assignee or transferee of the USS10 000 000.00 (Ten million United States Dollars) Loan Stock issued by the company to Neoma Africa fund LLC to 987500000 (Nine hundred and eighty-seven million, five hundred thousand) ordinary shares of the company (the “Transaction”). L-R:  Alex Mbakogu- Executive Director/ Chief Financial Officer, C&I Leasing Plc, Mbanugo Udenze- Company Secretary,  Henry C. Okolo- Chairman, C&I Leasing Plc, Andrew Otike-Odibi, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, C&I Leasing Plc, Larry Ademeso, Non-Executive Director and Olusegun Oso, Non-Executive Director, C&I Leasing Plc during – C&I Leasing Extraordinary General Meeting today Tuesday In today’s  Extraordinary General Meeting of members and Shareholders of C&I Leasing Plc which hold on Tuesday, November 3, 2020 at THE INCUBATOR, No.7/8, Chief Yesuf Abiodun Way, City of David Road, Oniru, Victoria Island, Lagos.  Mr Henry Okolo, Chairman of the company while introducing the meeting said this conversion will strengthen the balance sheet of the company.  He said the firm has enjoyed consistent growth and has expanded its scope of business to cover major sectors of the Nigerian economy, providing specialized services, in marine, telecommunications, oil and gas, equipment rentals, manpower outsourcing, and transportation. The Chairman in explanations to shareholders as demanded by Sir Sunny Nwusu, said really, he agreed with every words of shareholders and that it is an over cite for the explanations. Mr Okolo explained further that in 2017, when the deal happened, it was N179 for US Dollar and that since then to date, they as a company has not pay any interest on the capital to the investor. According to him, the ten thousand US Dollars of 2017 into today’s value of the same currency in the deal, shareholders will agreed with me that they are at a better deal than they assumed.  Before, the approval of the conversion of the shares by shareholders, Sir Sunny Nwusu, Former National coordinator of shareholders solidarity Association of Nigeria raised observation as it regard to price of conversion at rate of N4.75 per share lesser than initial purchased at N6 per share, therefore putting them shareholders in disadvantages of the investors.  He therefore asked the management to go back to the investor and renegotiates the deal all over again which is normal in the business, he noted.  Sir Sunny stressed further that this is the result of failed to briefed shareholders by the management of any deal before the general meeting.  He threatens to challenge them if they should failed to review the price of N4.75 per share upward and they what to go ahead through back door.  Another shareholder toed the line of the Sir Sunny Nwusu adding that the price of N4.75 per share is not favourable to them; therefore, the shareholders will not support the approval at today EGM.  The third shareholders who took time to analysis the deal said though management failed to consulted shareholders before the meeting, in today reality, the value of Naira to US Dollar has gone down than in 2017 when the deal was sealed with the investor.  However, he appealed to the management to do something in place of the price of N4.75 to better shareholders while equally pleaded with shareholders to look into the matter and reconsider their stands of rejecting the approval.  After chairman of the company’s explanations as demanded by Sir Sunny Nwusu and the last shareholders statements, Sir Sunny called a break to allow the shareholders to consult with their Audit Committee in the company and some negotiations thereupon.  When Sir Sunny returned to talk, he said am satisfied with further explanations of audit committee team and their further assurance in the deal.  The company listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange many years and has been in operation for over two decades. It has since evolved from being a simple consumer finance leasing company licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria in 1991 to becoming a diversified, leasing and business service conglomerate providing support services to various indigenous and multinational organizations in West Africa along three lines: Fleet Management, Personnel Outsourcing and Marine Services.  It is on record that the C&I Leasing group of companies has cumulative staff strength of over 5,000 employees across Nigeria but has its operational offices in Lagos, Benin, Port-Harcourt, Calabar, Enugu and Abuja.  With Company provide both operating and finance leases and other services. The Company’s principal activities include extension of structured operating and finance leases to the productive and other sectors of the economy.  The Company has Vision to become through innovation the leasing and ancillary service company of choice for any discerning lessee in West Africa and beyond. While its mission is to provide customers with quality leasing and ancillary service solutions to meet their unique needs supported by appropriate technology in accordance with world class systems and procedures.