Mallam Farouk Salim, Director-General, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has inaugurated a five man Committee to help examine the structure of SON, its processes and practices with a view to providing a template to address operational, service delivery and staff welfare challenges to entrench equity and fairness. DG, at the inauguration exercise said the committee was created to review the Standards body’s management practices.  Salim, described the occasion as historic and going against the norms in an attempt to build strong processes for the organisation that would outlive the Chief Executives’ tenures.  He mandated the committee to chart frameworks to strengthening the SON for improved service delivery.  “The committee is also charged with identifying greater opportunities for staff to contribute to attainment of organisational goals,” he said.  Salim enumerated the Committee’s terms of reference to include control and coordination, communication and effectiveness.  Others, he said, are manpower dispositions and manning levels, recruitment, postings and transfers as well as public perception of the organisation among others.  The Director General stated that the Committee members were carefully selected given their rich pedigrees and experiences in the public sector and the management’s belief in their competence and ability to contribute to the growth of SON.  Salim said departmental presentations containing the activities, achievements, challenges and suggestions already obtained from directors, heads of departments and relevant portions of the handover notes of the last management would be available to the committee.  He enjoined the committee to invite additional inputs, presentations, clarifications or opinions from members of the SON Management and the Staff Unions as it may deem necessary.  He stated that arrangements had been made for the Committee to visit SON major operational offices in Lagos, Enugu, Port Harcourt and Kano to feel the pulse of the staff and have a broader view of the organisation.  The Director General stated that the committee had four weeks from the date of inauguration to submit its interim report and would be expected to submit its final report before the end of the year.  Barr Osuagwu Uwanuakwa, a retired Permanent Secretary, Establishment, Pension and Records in the Office of Head of Service, Chairman of the committee pledged devotion to the assignment with a view to delivering on the terms of reference within the time frame given.  Uwanuakwa commending the Standards Body Director-General, Mallam Farouk Salim on his novel approach towards realising his vision for the organisation promised to hit the ground running with excellent serve delivery alongsides members of the Committee.  Another member of the Committee, Mr Kabir Wudil, a former Special Assistant to the Chief of Staff to the President described the committee as introspection capable of transforming SON towards greater contributions to nation building.  Other members of the Committee are, Dr Rukayyatu Gurin a senior lecturer at BAZE University, Abuja,  Pharmacist Mashood Oluku Lawal, retired Director, Federal Ministry of Health and a former member of the SON Governing Council and the SON Director, Human Resources Management, Mr Abdulkadir Usman, who is to serve as facilitator.