His Excellency, Vice President of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, GCON, is set to lead global industry leaders drawn from the Americas, Europe, Asia and Africa at the Nigeria Liquified Petroleum Gas Association (NLPGA) 10th International LPG Conference themed; “LPG: Pivoting Economic Recovery for Households and Industries in Nigeria and Africa”.  This year’s conference which will be hosted virtually due to the mood of the times and in line with social distancing precaution is scheduled for Friday, December 4, 2020. The virtual conference will facilitate interactive discussions among speakers and panellists to achieve the conference’s crucial aim of amplifying the role of the entire LPG value chain to drive sustainable adoption of LPG towards spurring economic growth and improving the wellbeing of households across sub-Saharan Africa. Speakers, scheduled and confirmed to join the Vice President at the conference include: The speakers and panellists will focus on interrogating pertinent industry issues, proffering actionable and significant solutions towards achieving an accelerated Post-COVID 19 economic revival, with gas as a pivotal enabler. The summit’s agenda includes keynote addresses and presentations from experts across the LPG value chain; panel sessions led by sector-specific thought leaders addressing an array of conversations.  Some of the topics to be addressed and presented include, “The Place of Gas in Nigeria’s Accelerated Economic Recovery Plan”, “Harnessing LPG to Drive an African Economic Renaissance”, “Leveraging Gas to Build Lagos 21st Century Economy”, “Unboxing the National LPG Expansion Plan”, and “Strategies and Imperatives for Broadening Market Access for LPG in Africa”. The conference panel sessions are designed to address critical issues centred around funding, leveraging opportunities, the adoption and acceptance of LPG as a significant driver towards rebuilding the economy. The first session on “Broadening Market Access, Utilization, Adoption and Acceptance of LPG as Driver of Economic Revival” would be discussed by Group Head LPG, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Engr. (Mrs) Nwaoma Olujie,  Group Managing Director, Rainoil, Gabriel Ogbechie, Technical Director, GasTech, Edet Inyang, Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Techno Oil, Nkechi Obi MON. The second session is centred on ” Unlocking Funding Opportunities Towards Strengthening the Gas Value Chain in Africa”. Speakers already confirmed to discuss on the panel include Executive Secretary/CEO, Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), Teju Abisoye; Managing Director, Bank of Industry, Olukayode Pitan; and Head, Investment Banking Division FBNQuest Merchant Bank Limited, Patrick Mgbenwelu. Commenting, the President, NLPGA, Mr Nuhu Yakubu said: “On behalf of the Governing Council, I am delighted to have this impressive line-up of thought leaders as Keynote Speakers, Panellists and Moderators confirm their participation at the NLPGA’s 10th International LPG Conference. In the words of great author and lecturer, Hellen Adams Keller, ‘alone we can do so little; together we can do so much’. “In the past decade, we have brought together brilliant minds from across the shores of Africa and the world to interrogate salient issues in the global and local LPG markets and how we can enrich the wellbeing of households through adoption of cleaner fuels. This year, despite the pandemic, we are proud to maintain this tradition of excellence and quality discourse in our flagship engagement forum. We look forward to receiving all the delegates and speakers to an engaging experience on December 4, 2020”, Mr Yakubu added.  Sponsors of this year’s edition include the Nigeria Liquified Natural Gas (NLNG) as the title sponsor; the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) as Host and RunGas as Diamond sponsor. For participation and sponsorship detail, please contact the Secretariat: olakunleoyebanjo@nigerialpgas.com or contact 08039789876, 0902 222 2226, 0818 253 7351 for further substantive information. About Nigeria Liquified Petroleum Gas Association (NLPGA) The Nigeria LP Gas Association is the umbrella body of all Stakeholders in the LP Gas sector in Nigeria. The primary objective of the Association is to promote the use of LP Gas in Nigeria at affordable costs. It also aims at protecting the interests of the LP Gas industry and the entire Nigerian socio-economic environment at large, through public policy advocacy, creation and facilitation of commercial and industrial opportunities, provision of business development services and observance of the highest standard of operational and business ethics.