GOtv Boxing Night 21, which is scheduled to hold on 27 November at the Rowe Park Sports Centre, Lagos, will be broadcast live on SuperSport Select 2 (channel 34). The coming edition of Africa’s premier boxing show will hold behind closed doors in compliance with COVID-19 protocols, as seen across the globe where fans are yet to return to venues of sporting events as advised by health authorities. Despite the restriction on attendance, Flykite Productions, organizers of the event have assured fans that they will not miss a minute of action, as the event will be transmitted live on SuperSport. This was also confirmed by John Ugbe, Chief Executive Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, who stated that while everyone is excited at the resumption of sporting activities, it is important that the advice of the health authorities is heeded to curtail the spread of the deadly virus.  “We are delighted to see sporting activities resume and are specially thrilled to have GOtv Boxing Night back. This edition was scheduled to hold in April but had to be moved because of COVID-19. We assure fans that the seven hours will be transmitted live and there is no chance they’ll miss a minute if they tune in. It is the duty of everyone to arrest the spread of the virus and we are happy to join the fans, who’d watch from home, to contribute to this effort,” said Ugbe. Scheduled to fight on the day are some of the biggest names in Nigerian boxing. They include former African Boxing Union (ABU) welterweight champion, Olaide “Fijaborn” Fijabi; West African Boxing Union (WABU) lightweight champion, and Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu; WABU welterweight champion, Rilwan “Baby Face” Babatunde. Reconnect now on the GOtv Max package to have the full experience as well as access to other channels such as SS La Liga, BET, M-Net Movie 4, StarLife, Cartoon Network, Investigation Discovery and much more for the price of N3,600! GOtv Jolli package also gives you wide access to channels such as SS Football, Fox, Da Vinci, MTV Base, Telemundo, AM Family, TNT, Discovery Family, CBS Reality, ROK 2 & ROK GH for N2,460. You can make use of the MyGOtv app from the comfort of your homes to upgrade or reconnect. Also, starting Saturday, 21 November, customers can get a GOtv decoder and antennae with one month on Jolli package at N8,400 as the special festive season offer. For more information on GOtv’s content offering, follow GOtv on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Visit www.gotvafrica.com or download MyGOtv app which is available to iOS and Android users to upgrade, reconnect or select the Auto-Renewal option to stay connected to quality entertainment without interruptions and for other self-service options.