 The SFG. Boss Mustapha has told State House correspondents after leading some members of the task force to brief the president that the federal government might consider locking down 18 out of the nation’s 774 local government areas (LGAs) considered to account for 60 per cent of the confirmed COVID-19 cases in Nigeria in the next phase of eased lockdown. He said the affected state governments would implement what he called “precision lockdown.” While noting that the nation has not reached its peak as far as confirmed cases were concerned, he urged all stakeholders to ensure compliance with all non-pharmaceutical interventions. He also gave an insight into the reason behind the low fatality rate in Nigeria, saying 80 per cent of the infections are in the age bracket of 31 to 40 years, which he described as a very active part of the population. Mustapha said the highest rate of COVID-19 cases was recorded in 18 of the LGAs. According to the SGF, 60 per cent of the total over 24,000 cases recorded as at June 28 came from the 18 local governments. The PTF chairman said the COVID-19 cases would continue to rise as long as there is no vaccine or drug for its cure while the country’s testing capacity has also increased. He added that the only way the spread could be reduced is strict adherence to non-pharmaceutical prescriptions such as the use of face masks, social distancing, avoidance of overcrowded places, among other protocols already publicised. The SGF explained that the mortality rate in Nigeria has been low when compared to the situation in most countries because most of those infected by the virus fall within the age bracket of 31-40 whom he said had strong immunity to fight the disease. However, he said the PTF was only concerned about 20 per cent of the population whom he said might be victims of the virus, noting that five per cent of them are likely to succumb to it because of their ages. According to him, it is against this backdrop that the PTF is doing its best to protect those who fall within the category, noting that it is the reason they said those from 55 years and above should not go to worship centres.