…Committing to maintaining sustainable impact on SMEs, consumers in Nigeria  Jumia Nigeria, the leading e-commerce platform has announced new sizzling offers to new and existing customers to celebrate its eighth-year anniversary of online marketplace operations. The company also said it has contributed immensely to the growth and capacity building of small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria since inception, especially during the recent lockdown imposed by the government in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  These announcements were made at the eighth anniversary press conference themed “Stronger Together”, by Massimiliano Spalazzi, Jumia Nigeria’s CEO which held on 17 June, 2020.  According to Spalazzi, Jumia made a sustainable impact on Nigeria’s economy during COVID-19 lockdown, a positive impact the company intends to sustain on SMEs and help consumers in Nigeria to save money and time with this year’s anniversary campaign.  “In the last few months, we’ve seen that e-commerce is crucial to the Nigerian economy. We have seen more people shifting their activities online at a faster pace, working and shopping are coming online faster than we thought and never like before. We saw new and returning customers coming on our platform to shop from the safety of their home. Jumia became a place where communities across Nigeria came to buy all sorts of products – groceries, fashion.  During the recent lockdown period, more brands come online to partner with Jumia by putting their products and services on our platform or advertising offers on Jumia Advertising. Within the period, we focused our attention on safety as much as possible to ensure safe delivery of products from our platform. We implemented contactless delivery, and helped by JumiaPay which allows you to pay for the product before it is delivered or pay at the doorstep through a contactless approach,” the CEO went further to said.  In her own presentation during the press conference, Omolola Oladunjoye, the Chief Commercial Officer at Jumia Nigeria informed the audience that, in line with the company’s theme for the eighth anniversary, Jumia has put together various promotional offers to entice and reward its new and existing customers. She listed Samsung, Dettol, Nexus, Intel, HP and Unilever as some of the brand partners for the anniversary campaign.  “These two-week promotional offers, which will commence on 22 June, will see many new and existing customers win various freebies, buy items at highly discounted prizes of up to 99 percent, as well as enjoy free delivery on most of the items,” she said.  On the promotional offers, Spalazzi explained that the anniversary will be a celebration of solidarity targeted at benefiting customers, partners and sellers on the platform.  “The core of Jumia anniversary will focus on customers and partners. We want to empower existing sellers and businesses to benefit on the Jumia anniversary. This is one of the times we generate more traffic and we want vendors to benefit from more sales, and we will onboard new businesses throughout this period,” he concluded.  He reeled out Jumia’s gestures as a responsible corporate citizen during the lockdown and stated that the company will continue to create sustainable impact in our  communities .  “We donated 100,000 certified masks to the Federal Ministry of Health. We also gave out a free advertising slot on our platform to the Federal Ministry of Health to sensitize the public under our “Stay Safe’ campaign. We also gave a free advertising slot to support an NGO which was committed to the cause of helping people during the lockdown. We are committed to sustaining these impacts we created during the lockdown and it in many ways.” 