 However, as part of efforts to appease the health workers, the federal government has undertaken to pay over N20 billion as three months’ hazard allowance for those in the frontline battling to contain the pandemic. At a meeting yesterday in Abuja, the federal government said the hazard allowance for April and May would be paid before Friday, while that of June would be paid by the end of the month. This was part of the agreement reached between the government representatives led by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, and the representatives of the health sector workers. The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), NARD, the Joint Health Sector Unions and affiliates of JOHESU, the Nigerian Midwives Association are among unions whose members are to benefit from the package. Speaking after the meeting, Ngige said the urgent approval given by President Muhammadu Buhari was in appreciation of the efforts of the health workers, risking their lives on the frontline in the fight against COVID-19.
He said the government had approved insurance coverage for the workers, adding that the gesture was in consonance with the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) entered on April 21 between the federal government and the representatives of the health workers’ unions on the COVID-19 Special Incentives for the public sector health workers under the federal civil service. He said: “We reviewed all and also, we reviewed the emoluments that we are to give these gallant workers who are in the frontline taking the risk for all of us and the federal government side has given them the financial implications of what they have done. “So, we have fixed a timeline for ourselves that before the end of this week, the health workers captured in that particular COVID-19 net; frontline workers should get all their hazard and inducement allowances for the months of April and May before the close of the week.” According to him, the decision on the commencement of the implementation of the allowances was reached along with the Accountant-General of the Federation and Minister of Health. In his remarks, the Minister of State for Health, Senator Olorunninbe Mamora, said the ministry would ensure the provision of PPEs to various hospitals.
NMA General Secretary, Dr. Ekpe Philip Uche, said they were pleased with the outcome of the negotiations.