The Nigerian Stock Exchange is set to host a special webinar this week on the impact of COVID-19 on the global capital market and the resilience of securities exchanges in supporting economies. Speakers at the webinar include the Chief Executive Officer of NSE, Oscar Onyema; the CEO, Luxembourg Stock Exchange, Robert Scharfe; the CEO, London Stock Exchange, Nikhil Rathi; and the CEO, World Federation of Exchanges, Nandini Sukumar. According to a statement from the NSE, during the panel session, the speakers will discuss the expectations and future of securities exchanges as they transition to the new normal necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic. It said they would highlight key initiatives around business innovation and digital transformation of exchanges, investors’ protection strategies, and capital raising opportunities, among others. Onyema noted that the COVID-19 pandemic had created unprecedented disruption in the global economy with varying degrees of volatility. He said, “Regardless, financial markets, particularly capital markets around the world, have shown resilience in supporting their economies. The NSE, on its part, has been resolute in its commitment to ensure that there are no disruptions to its operations. “With countries now gradually opening up and most economies resuming activity, it is important to sustain important dialogues around business innovation and partnership in order to capitalise on the opportunities presented in this challenging time.” Onyema added, “We are, therefore, pleased to create a platform to highlight the activities of exchanges in maintaining an enabling environment for stakeholders to continue to save and access capital during any crisis.” According to him, the event is part of the NSE’s thought leadership series designed to synthesise effective strategies that will enhance stakeholders’ experience in Nigeria and the world over. “Since the activation of its Business Continuity Plan on March 23, 2020, which saw the transition to remote trading and working, the NSE has remained fully functional, delivering on its mandates to deepen market activity with new listings; engage its various stakeholders through ongoing virtual sessions; and perform its regulatory functions by providing a plethora of relevant guidance documents,” he said.