The National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy shall be anchored on the 8 pillars of the ‘DIGITAL NIGERIA’ Roadmap of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy (FMoCDE).  These pillars are listed below:  The Pillars will accelerate the development of a digital economy in Nigeria. In addition, Tte Digital Economy in the Nigerian Context ICT’s Contribution to Nigeria’s GDP – An Emerging Prospect ICT’s contribution has been one of the fastest growing components of Nigeria’s GDP and is emerging as its most important long-term growth prospect. In the second quarter of 2019, ICT contributed 13.85% to the GDP calculations, as against Oil and Gas putting in 8.82% in comparison . With the execution of a Digital Economy strategy, the digital technology sector cans double its contribution to the economy over the next five years Youth are the enablers of any digital revolution. Therefore, with a population having an average age of just over 18 years and with 60% of the country represented by youth, it indicates that Nigeria is ready to be the foundation of an African Digital Economy. Furthermore, seizing the initiative with the youth would make Nigeria the driver of a continent-wide digital economy under the new African Continental Free Trade Agreement (ACFTA). Nigeria also possesses an infrastructural advantage over its neighbours, and this should also propel the nation to a position of digital leadership on the continent. There was an urgent need to have a Ministry assigned the role of coordinating the activities related to Nigeria’s Digital Economy. This need led President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, to approve the redesignation of the Ministry of Communications as the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy on the 17th of October, 2019.  The change of name expanded the mandate of the Ministry to include a key aspect of the priority areas set for the Ministry by the Federal Government, which is the “Development and Implementation of a Digital Economy Policy and Strategy”.  The name, Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, gives a more holistic reflection of the mandate of the Ministry; communications addresses the channel, digital addresses the nature of the content and economy reflects the central focus of the activities of the Ministry, which is the development of the economy in line with the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) of President Buhari’s administration. The Ministry’s mission statement is We Leverage Digital Technologies for National Economic Development. It encapsulates the rationale for its being the fulcrum for establishing and sustaining a national digital economy.