The Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) survey report was conducted by the Statistics Department of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) during the period August10-14, 2020.The report disclosed that purchasing and supply executives of manufacturing and non-manufacturing organizations in all 36 states in Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).  CBN revealed that the Bank makes no representation regarding the individual companies, other than the information they have provided. The data contained herein further provides input for policy decisions.  According to the report in the period under review, supplier delivery time grew, while Production level, new orders, employment level and raw materials inventories contracted.  The report stated that the Manufacturing PMI in the month of August stood at 48.5index points, indicating contraction in the manufacturing sector for the fourth consecutive months.  However, the breakdown of the report showed out of 14 subsectors surveyed, 6 subsectors reported expansion (above 50% threshold) in the review month in the following order: nonmetallic mineral products; cement; plastics & rubber products; transportation equipment; chemical & pharmaceutical products and textile, apparel, leather & footwear. The remaining 8 subsectors reported contraction in the following order: printing & related support activities; electrical equipment; petroleum & coal products; primary metal; furniture & related products; paper products; food, beverage & tobacco products; and fabricated metal products.  The Production Level stood at 49.2points, the production level index for the manufacturing sector showed contraction in August2020 and for the fourth consecutive months. Of the 14 subsectors surveyed, 5subsectors recorded expansion in production level, 3subsectors reported same level of production, while 6subsectors recorded contraction in production in August2020  The New Orders recorded at 49.2points, which means the new orders index shows slower contraction in August 2020. Six subsectors reported expansion in new orders, 2subsectors maintained same level, while 6recorded contraction in the review month  While the Supplier Delivery Time index stood at 53.0points in August2020, indicating faster supplier delivery time for the fourth time. Seven of the 14 subsectors recorded improved suppliers’ delivery time, 2subsectors reported same level, while 5sectors recorded slower delivery time in August  The employment level index for August2020 stood at 44.6points, indicating contraction in employment level for the fifth consecutive months. Of the 14 subsectors, 2 subsectors recorded expansion in employment level in the review month; 3 subsectors recorded same level of employment, while the remaining 9subsectors recorded lower employment level in the review month  Raw material Inventories index contracted for the fifth time in August2020 which stood at 46.1points, the index declined in the review month. Four of the 14 subsectors recorded growth in inventories, the petroleum and coal subsector reported same level of inventories, while the remaining 9subsectors recorded lower raw material inventories in the review month  The PMI for the non-manufacturing sector stood at 44.7points in the period under review, indicating contraction in non-manufacturing activities for the fifth consecutive months. Of the17 surveyed sub-sectors, only the utilities subsector reported same level, while the remaining 16 subsectors reported contracted in the following order: repair, maintenance/washing of motor vehicles; real estate rental & leasing; professional, scientific, & technical services; management of companies; electricity, gas, steam & air conditioning supply; educational services; health care & social assistance; finance & insurance; construction; arts, entertainment & recreation; transportation & warehousing; accommodation & food services; water supply, sewage & waste management; wholesale/retail trade; agriculture and Information & communication  “The business activity index declined for the fourth consecutive month, indicating contraction in non-manufacturing business activity at 47.4points, inAugust2020. Five out of the 17 subsectors reported growth in business activities (above 50% threshold) in the review month; 3 subsectors reported same level, while the remaining 9subsectors recorded decline in business activity in the review month  “The new orders index declined for the fifth time in August2020. Three of the 17 subsectors reported growth in new order (above 50% threshold) in the review month, 2sectors reported same level, while the remaining 12subsectors recorded decline in new orders in the review month  “The employment level Index for the non-manufacturing sector stood at 44.3points, indicating decline in employment level in August2020. Utilities subsector recorded same level of employment, while the remaining 16subsectors reported decline in employment level (below50% threshold) in the review month  The report also disclosed that non-manufacturing inventory index declined for the fifth consecutive month. This indicates reduced inventories in the review period. The transport& warehousing subsector reported growth in inventory; the utilities sector reported same level of inventories, while the remaining 15 subsectors recorded decline in inventories in the review period