MAN therefore urges the CBN to reverse this policy in the overall interest of the Nigeria manufacturing sector and the economy in general.  Engr. Mansur Ahmed, the President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) refers to the circular released by the Apex bank on its resolve to ensure the prudent use of foreign exchange resources and eliminate incidences of over invoicing, transfer pricing, double handling charges and avoidable costs that are ultimately passed to the average Nigerian consumer through directing authorized dealers to desist from opening of forms M whose payment are routed through a buying company or any other third parties.  The MAN president acknowledges the good intention of the Bank; however the impact of such decision is inimical to the survival of many manufacturing concerns that are not involved in any unethical practices especially at a time when the nation is implementing phased gradual ease on lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic.  We believe that this additional hamstring on the economy is likely to erode the recent improved performance on the ease of doing business ranking. MAN pointed out saying wishes to draw the attention of the apex bank that most manufacturers especially SMEs deal with accredited agents for their supplies as many Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) abroad do not sell directly to individual buyers. Furthermore, it is in line with global best practice for OEMs and large International Manufacturing Companies operating in multiple countries and with sourcing needs in various jurisdictions to leverage on the economics of scale to secure lower prices through centralized procurement. Engr Ahmed further said that “in Nigeria, central procurement plays a critical role in the production process; an absence of same will hamper manufacturers operating in the country and may result in Factory shutdowns.  In the absence of a global procurement agency, most companies would not have access to the final suppliers, who consider the inherent country risks a disincentive for trading directly with companies in Nigeria. The procurement agencies have provided a vital interface between the final suppliers and the manufacturers, and allow same extended payment timelines by granting credit in periods of foreign currency scarcity. “It is pertinent to point out that many companies have gone into contractual agreements via the procurement agencies for the 2020 financial year and in some cases beyond.  Default on these contractual obligations may result in expensive lawsuits across jurisdictions, bring disruptions to the production process and further undermine the resilience of the Manufacturing sector. Consequently, the multiplier effect on the economy will be reduction in productivity; loss in business revenues; supply chain disruption and ultimately and loss of employment. MAN therefore made two recommendations that can help apex bank makes wise decisions and they are: If the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is of the view that the audit of the activities of a central procurement agency in terms of price verification is impossible, a phased approach should be adopted to the elimination of their use in Nigeria.  This will enable companies have sufficient time to re-organize and build the required relationships with original suppliers which they do not currently have.   The Captioned Photo: The President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Engr. Mansur Ahmed