 The Nigerian Meteorological Agency has predicted thundery and rainy activities from Wednesday to Friday. NiMet`s weather outlook released on Tuesday in Abuja predicted cloudy skies over Borno, Adamawa and Taraba on Wednesday, with chances of thunderstorms over parts of Kano, Kebbi, Yobe, Gombe and Bauchi States in the morning. According to it, there are prospects of thunderstorms over the northern region to affect parts of Maiduguri, Taraba, Adamawa, Bauchi, Zamfara, Katsina and Sokoto States in the afternoon and evening hours. ”The north central cities are expected to be cloudy in the morning with chances of rains over parts of Plateau, Kwara, Abuja and Niger axis. ”Progressing into the day, there are prospects of moderate rains over Plateau, Kogi, Kwara and Benue States. ”Cloudy morning is expected over the inland and coastal cities of the south with prospects of light rains over places like Enugu, Anambra, Ebonyi, Cross River and Osun States. ”During the afternoon and evening periods, there will be cloudy atmosphere over most parts of the region with light rains expected over Enugu, Abia, Edo and Rivers States,” it said.. According to the release, there are prospects of thunderstorms over Sokoto, Katsina, Kano and Kaduna States on Thursday with cloudy skies over the north-eastern region in the morning. NiMet predicted isolated thunderstorms over Adamawa, Sokoto, Kano, Katsina and Gombe States during the afternoon and evening. The agency envisaged cloudy morning over the north central region with chances of rains over Abuja, Kwara and Nassarawa States. NiMet forecast moderate rains over parts of Plateau, Kogi and Benue States later in the evening. It further forecast prospects of light rains over the inland of the south to affect Ondo, Ekiti and Osun States with cloudy skies over the coastal cities in the morning. The agency predicted rains over the inland cities and some parts of the coastal belt like Port-Harcourt and Calabar in the afternoon. ”On Friday, cloudy skies are expected to prevail over the north with prospects of thunderstorms over Kano, Kaduna, Bauchi, Gombe, Borno and Adamawa States in the morning. ”Later in the day, thunderstorms are anticipated over Kano, Kaduna, Borno and Adamawa States. ” Cloudy atmosphere is expected over the north central cities in the morning. ”Progressing into the day, rains are expected over Plateau, Benue and Kogi States. Cloudy morning is anticipated over the southern region. ”NiMet envisaged rains over the inland cities of the south leaving the coastal parts in cloudy condition,”  it said. NAN 