 The Nigeria’s power sector has recorded another milestone in improving the supply chain as the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) yesterday announced another improved all-time national peak of 5,420.30 megawatts. The company in a statement by its General Manager, Public Affairs, Mrs. Ndidi Mbah, said the entire power was transmitted through the national grid at a frequency of 50.10Hz at 9:15 pm on August 18, 2020. “This is the highest ever recorded in the nation’s power sector to-date, surpassing the previous peak of 5,377.80MW recorded on August 1, 2020, by 42.50MW,” the company said. However, despite the feat, load-shedding, a way of ensuring that the available generation is equitably allocated to distribution companies nationwide to create a balance and avert grid instability has remained a norm in the power supply system. Nigeria, with an estimated population of 200 million, has continued to generate only a fraction of its electricity needs, thus weakening major its economic development efforts. To ameliorate the age-long problem, the federal government recently signed an agreement with Germany, represented by Siemens AG, to overhaul the three power value chains in order to deliver stable, reliable and quality power to the people. It has paid over N8 billion as its initial counterpart financing for the five-year project. Although the TCN did not specifically mention how the new peak was attained, it noted it was upbeat about the new development, attributing it to the ‘’efforts” of the current administration. “The gradual but steady improvement in electricity delivery in the nation’s power sector is attributable to the keen interest of the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari in piloting programmes and projects geared towards growing the power sector as well as the collective effort of all power sector players in the value chain. “TCN is committed to working assiduously to further stabilise, rehabilitate and expand the grid and urges Nigerians to lend their support by safeguarding electricity installations nationwide,” Mbah added.