SIFAX Group, a group of companies with investment in Maritime, Aviation, Oil & Gas, Haulage & Logistics, Financial Services and Hospitality,has rewarded and honoured 46 staff at its annual Long Service Award ceremony. L-R: Ada Ihesiaba, Billing department, Ports & Cargo Handling Services, a subsidiary of SIFAX Group; Abayomi Obadare, General Manager, Billing, Ports & Cargo Handling Services and an awardee who has spent 15 years in the service of SIFAX Group; Oluwakayode Alonge, Group Head, Human Resources, SIFAX Group and Abiodun Junaid, Senior Manager, Human Resources, SIFAX Group during the SIFAX Group Long Service Award presentation which was held across all subsidiaries recently.  The SIFAX Group Long Service Award is an annual event where deserving staff, who have served for a minimum period of ten years, are rewarded with cash gifts for their meritorious, consistent and outstanding service to the company. The awardees received their gifts at a private ceremony held across various subsidiaries recently. Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group in his good will message to the recipients, lauded the staff for their passion, dedication and hard work in uplifting the company to its current heights. L-R: Oluwakayode Alonge, Group Head, Human Resources, SIFAX Group; Barr. Tunji Olusinde, Executive Director, Legal Services, SIFAX Group and Olayiwola Buhari, Assistant Manager, Legal Services and an awardee who has spent 10 years in the service of SIFAX Group, during the SIFAX Group Long Service Award presentation which was held across all subsidiaries recently. He said: “I must salute your courage and dedication. It means a lot to me that you have all dutifully contributed to the growth of the company in your different subsidiaries and in various capacities. I am touched because these gestures have shown to me an unrivalled level of loyalty to both the company and your jobs. Thank you for believing in the SIFAX Group dreams and contributing your quota on a daily basis to see it come to fulfilment.” Mr. Adekunle Oyinloye, Group Managing Director, SIFAX Group, urged the recipients to see the recognitions as a call to better and higher level of service and commitment, adding that the company would continue to provide the required assistance and support to its workforce, including remuneration, training and promotion in a bid to motivate for optimum performance.  L-R: Oluwakayode Alonge, Group Head, Human Resources, SIFAX Group; Tobi Afolabi, Executive Director, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited; Felix Abumere, Facility Department, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited and awardee who has spent 10 years in the service of SIFAX Group and Capt. Ibraheem Olugbade, Executive Director, Administration, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited during the SIFAX Group Long Service Award presentation which was held across all subsidiaries recently. Of the 46 staff honoured and rewarded, forty three of them had served for 10 years, two for 15 years and one for 20 years. Responding on behalf of the recipients, Mr. Abayomi Obadare, General Manager, Billing and Commercial, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited, lauded the management for the culture of rewarding staff. He described the experience working at SIFAX Group as an interesting one and further assured the management that recipients would be inspired to do more.