“The Telecom Consumer Parliament (TCP) provides high-level engagement and interactions with consumers and other stakeholders in the telecommunications industry.”  The Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Danbatta, at the First Virtual Edition of the Telecoms Consumer Parliament (VTCP) Held At The NCC Head Office, Maitama, Abuja On Friday, August 21, 2020 said it is my pleasure to welcome you all to this important occasion, being the first-ever virtual edition of the Telecom Consumer Parliament (TCP) organised by the Nigerian Communications Commission taking place here at the Commission’s Conference Room, Maitama, Abuja. This event, according to the organiser, is taking into consideration, the dynamics of the global pandemic and the directives from the Federal Government on social distancing and other measures thereof put in place to curb the spread of Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.  “The virtual meeting in place of our customary face-to-face engagement in previous Parliaments in the past and is a testament to rapid change to our lifestyle occasioned by the Covid-19 Pandemic. This is making telecommunications and indeed ICT the major driver of growth in every sector now.  Professor Danbatta noted in his opening remarks that the theme of today’s event: “Impact of Covid-19 on Telecoms Service Delivery” is timely and could not have come at a better time than now adding that the focus of this parliament also provide us with an opportunity as industry stakeholders, to have a quick look at how the pandemic is impacting our service delivery in the telecommunication industry, which currently provides the digital platform for the economy to remain afloat.  According to a report released by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) in May 2020, which examine the impact of the pandemic on the telecoms sector, “Covid-19 virus has presented a stress test for Governments worldwide with the Internet playing a crucial role in keeping critical infrastructure and resources connected and available.”  The report further noted that reliable, high-speed Internet is key to ensuring that hospitals and medical institutions have access to global information and resources necessary to fight the virus. Broadband connectivity is also absolutely crucial for educational institutions and businesses to continue to provide essential services. According to the report the unprecedented global health emergency is tasking mobile networks and digital platforms to the limit, with some telecom operators and platforms reporting demand spikes as high as 800% since the outbreak of the pandemic in their respective countries.  In the wake of the outbreak of the pandemic in Nigeria, the Federal Government announced different categories of lockdown which make the mobility and social life of citizens hindered, necessitating the need for individuals, businesses and public institutions to rely more on telecommunications to constantly keep in touch with their relatives, friends and more importantly, for running their daily economic activities.  Educational activities are also increasingly taking place online following the closing down of schools, while shopping and other activities have migrated online. With all these activities carried out through the internet, network usage is skyrocketing, with many network operators reporting large increase of data usage. Likewise, volume of voice calls is also increasing by the day.  As we all are aware, telecoms is highly capital intensive and as such, continuous network upgrade and expansion are very key to operators’ ability to deliver top-notch QoS to their consumers. For instance, if operators are not able to expand or they are incapacitated to expand and upgrade their network in the face of spike in traffic, as occasioned by the pandemic, it will definitely have potential grave impact on Quality of Service delivery.  Despite the pandemic and the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 virus, we on our part have also not relented to ensure that the quality of telecom services is sustained during and post Covid–19 period. Permit me to state that while the regulator and the supervisory ministry has left no stone unturned towards ensuring that telecom service providers provide good quality service despite the covid-19 pandemic. It is equally important that network operators improve the quality of experience of the consumers particularly as we all tried to navigate the disruptions caused by pandemic.  I will round up by urging all stakeholders attending this forum to undertake an objective assessment of the impact of Covid-19 Pandemic on telecom networks and service delivery to consumers as well as come up with suggestions that will enhance the delivery of Quality Service to our esteemed consumers during and post Covid-19 period.  In conclusion, EVC declare the event open for the fruitful deliberations.  In earlier, mr Efosa Idehen, the Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau of the commission said it is on the crest of this that the Commission, as a consumer-centric telecommunications industry regulatory agency chose today’s theme: “The Impact of Covid-19 pandemic on Telecom Service Delivery” for discussion. The objective is to ascertain the role telecom service providers played and are expected to play to protect telecoms consumers and deliver quality service to them during this unique period.  He further disclosed that the programme which is hosted on a quarterly basis has become a great platform for addressing critical industry issues affecting consumers and other stakeholders in the telecommunications value-chain in Nigeria.  Besides being a platform through which various Consumer issues are addressed, he noted that the Telecom Consumer Parliament has had significant, positive and far-reaching impacts on the growth of the industry and benefited stakeholders in many ways.  Mr Idehen said, you will agree with me that while access to high-speed broadband connectivity is getting more pervasive and available to Nigerians to improve efficiency in their daily activities. According to him, Associated with this increased use, cyber criminals, cyber hackers or cyber fraudsters – whose stock in trade is to perpetuate criminality on the Internet has heightened since the outbreak of Covid-19. These cyber criminals defraud unsuspecting internet users who are now, more than ever before relies on broadband internet to reach friends, clients and partners, the director added.  Though, he noted that “the issue of cybercrime is a global phenomenon with levels of pervasiveness different from country to country and from region to region. It is becoming more pronounced in Nigeria along with it costs to individuals and organizations in terms of revenue losses, among other dangers it poses to victims. It is, therefore, our concern in NCC to ensure that risks associated with the usage of the Internet by Nigerians are addressed and managed successfully.  “Let me restate that this forum is in line with the Commission’s culture of robust stakeholder engagement and consultation on any industry issue. Therefore, I enjoin you all to maximise this opportunity to contribute to today’s discussion which will help to reinforce efforts aimed at protecting telecom consumer interest and ultimately promote a healthy telecom industry for all.  