Customers on GOtv Max and GOtv Jolli will witness the wrap up of the UEFA Champions League, as the last quarterfinal match, Manchester City vs Olympique Lyon is played at Estadio Jose Alvalade in Lisbon this Saturday, 15th August 2020 at 8pm on SuperSport Select 2 (channel 32). Speaking on the live broadcast, Chief Customer Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, Martin Mabutho said: “Our GOtv Max and Jolli customers can tune in live to watch one of the most anticipated games this weekend, the UCL Quarter-Final match between Man City and Lyon.” He also said the live UCL match is one of the ways the company is giving GOtv customers a great football experience. City were able to complete an impressive triumph over LaLiga champions Real Madrid, winning 2-1 at the Etihad Stadium (thanks to goals from Raheem Sterling and Gabriel Jesus) to take their round of 16 tie 4-2 on aggregate. The Citizens look more than capable of winning the Champions League for the first time in their history. “I think just energy, passion [were key]. It is one of those competitions we want to do well in and we said if we play our football but the most important thing was to run our socks off and the result would follow,” said Sterling, who will be a key figure again for Pep Guardiola’s side. Their opponents will be Lyon, who upset Juventus on away goals. Their tie ended 2-2 on aggregate, with the Italian giants winning 2-1 in the match in Turin last Friday but exiting on the back of Memphis Depay’s controversial penalty for OL. The French club are the clear outsiders for the mini tournament in Portugal, but goalkeeper Anthony Lopes has warned that they should not be underestimated: “We must look to go further and we have the right to look deeper into the competition. A lot of people don’t think we’ll go further but we have the firm belief that we can do it,” he explained. Do not miss the conclusion of the 2019-20 football season on GOtv. For more details on this match, visit SuperSport. Reconnect now on the GOtv Max and GOtv Jolli package to have access to the UCL Quarter-Finals experience! You can make use of the MyGOtv app from the comfort of your homes to upgrade and reconnect. To renew your subscription or switch your packages, visit www.gotvafrica.com  or download the MyGOtv app from the iOS and Android store to find out more and for self-service options.