It’s a long weekend and GOtv is making it extra special with quality video entertainment that the whole family can enjoy. Customers on GOtv Max will enjoy access to all the LIVE sporting events this long weekend including the grand finale of AM Owambe, Sunday Live Eviction show on BBNaija, movies on M-Net Movies Zone, and so much more.  Here’s your guide on what to watch on GOtv Max this weekend:  ESPN is back! (channel 38) Get full access to huge selection on live sports and other thrilling events such as, Major League Soccer: 2020, KF: Wedstrijd at 1:05am on Friday, 31st July, Scottish Premiership 2020 – 21: Aberdeen vs Rangers at 12:25pm on Saturday, 1st August and many more! Visit ESPN for broadcast details and follow @ESPNAfrica for updates.  On StarLife (channel 23), Shivaay airs on Sunday, 2nd August at 2pm. To unite his daughter Gaura with her Bulgarian mother Olga, Shivaay, an Indian man, travels overseas. On the way, a child trafficker kidnaps Gaura, causing Shivaay to pursue him.  Do you have a favourite housemate in BBNaija S5? Well, keep them in Biggie’s house by voting on the website and mobile site – www.africamagic.tv/bigbrother after Monday nominations. Also, via SMS by texting ‘VOTE’ and the ‘NAME’ of the ‘HOUSEMATE’ to ‘32052’. (SMS costs N30 for Nigeria only and available on the participating networks – Airtel, MTN and 9Mobile). Active GOtv subscribers will get more votes via the MyGOtv app; GOtv Max customers get 350 votes while GOtv Jolli customers get 200 votes. Stay tuned this Sunday, 2nd August at 7pm to find out which housemate (s) will be evicted!  This weekend join Jamie Foxx and Jennifer Garner in this explosive drama as FBI agents who travel to Saudi Arabia to investigate a terrorist attack on an American housing compound in the block buster, The kingdom. Airs on Friday, 31st July at 8:30pm on BET (channel 21),  The FA Cup Final between Arsenal vs Chelsea is here! Do not miss the conclusion of the match LIVE this Saturday, 1st August at 5:30pm. Catch all the action on SuperSport Select 5 (channel 36). Visit SuperSport for more details on this match and other LIVE sporting action.  On Investigation Discovery (channel 52), the debut season of Unmasked S1 airs on Saturdays 1st August at 7pm. On the episode ‘The Killer Clown’, Doreen Erbert answers the door to a trick-or-treater on Halloween, only to face a masked murderer. With no clear description of the killer, everyone is a suspect.  Don’t miss out the finale of AM Owambe Saturday With Indomie this Saturday, 1st August at 8:30pm! The exciting three-hour-long show will see high levels of energetic performance by Laolu Gbenjo band and a guest appearance from Nigerian stand-up comedian, Kenny Blaq. Showing on AM Family (channel 2)  For movie lovers, catch Terminator Genisys on M-Net Movie Zone (channel 3) which airs on Sunday, 2nd August at 8pm. Arnold Schwarzenegger returns for this Terminator instalment. Fighters are sent back in time to protect Sarah Connor but are met with unexpected complications in the timeline.  Reconnect now on the GOtv Max package to have access to quality programming on channels such as Select 5, BET, M-Net Movie Zone and so much more for the price of N3,280! You can make use of the MyGOtv app from the comfort of your homes to upgrade or reconnect. Follow GOtv on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook to find out more entertaining movies and TV series in July. Reconnect today! Visit GOtv or download the MyGOtv app from the iOS and Android store for other self-service options. 