The Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, stated this during the virtual forum on Right of Way Reforms and Planning Permits for Masts and Towers in Nigeria organised by the British Government’s Prosperity Fund’s Digital Access Programme in collaboration with Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the Ministry of Communication and Digital Economy on Thursday, August 13, 2020.  Danbatta was ably represented by the NCC’s Executive Commissioner, Stakeholder Management, Adeleke Adewolu.  Danbatta who noted that the NCC on its part is ready to collaborate with the UK Government Prosperity Fund-Nigeria Project, especially on the subject matter of today, i.e. reforming the administration of RoW and planning permits in Nigeria.  “In maximizing the benefits of digital transformation, resilient Telecoms Infrastructure is the key enabler in delivering ICT services. Therefore, this technical conference is apt, as it provides effective solutions to Right of Way (RoW) challenges amongst others.  EVC in his remarks said the input of this conference will assist the Government in further reducing the encumbrances bedeviling ICT infrastructure, especially in the provision/ building of resilient fixed Infrastructure in the federation.  He disclosed that “Equally, this event will further assist in our quest to deepen broadband deployment and penetration in Nigeria.  According to Professor, ubiquitous broadband will propel social and economic development and growth of citizens, as in; local content development & innovations, the proliferation of ICT industries, building digital skills, etc.  “We note, the short, medium, and long-tern actions set up in the report and we will work assiduously to their achievement. We also, encourage our service providers to appreciate some of the challenges faced by the state government and hope this will enable them to collaborate with the state government to effectively overcome the challenges.  The Commission appreciates the UK Government Prosperity Fund Digital Access Project team for organizing this event and also, commends the robust contributions of all stakeholders and the general support of the UK Government to Nigeria’s digital transformation processes, in particular to this event. It is a conversation of ideas that will support existing policies and commitment to Broadband for all, he added.   