Full Annual Conference & Exhibition to resume from 15 -18 June 2021 in Abuja, Nigeria In compliance with a directive from the Nigeria Centre of Disease Control (NCDC), a Federal Government body, that extends a ban on gatherings of more than 20 persons, the Nigeria Oil & Gas Conference & Exhibition (NOG) will not take place in November 2020.Following receipt of the directive, DMG events, organiser of NOG will now hold a virtual NOG on 2 – 3 November 2020. The next full in-person annual Conference & Exhibition will take place in Abuja from 15 – 18 June 2021. The decision to hold an online event ensures that NOG will continue to play an integral role in providing a platform for policy announcements, showcasing project and partnership opportunities, displaying locally developed capacity and facilitating the thought-provoking conversations that create the ideas that drive the industry forward. NOG is an annual industry event that attracts oil & gas leaders from both Nigeria and around the world to discuss and debate the future of Nigeria’s energy sector. Held for twenty years, NOG underpins Nigeria’s important leading position as one of the world’s largest oil and gas exporters, bringing together leaders at a government and industry level. Chairman of CWC Africa, Christopher Hudson said: “We remain steadfast in ensuring NOG continues to deliver greater value by facilitating the conversations that will spur development and providing opportunities to make new connections in the industry”. “As the global energy landscape continues to be transformed, a virtual NOG eliminates the barriers previously posed by physical borders and time restraints. This makes it possible to gather the most senior industry stakeholders from across the globe for insightful deliberations on the vision and practical steps to fortify the industry and position it for future growth.”  As the organisers of NOG look to the 2021 edition, the event will retain its position as the annual meeting place for government and private sector stakeholders and international investors to discuss opportunities to shape Nigeria’s energy agenda and fast-track economic recovery and secure prosperity for its citizens for decades to come. According to the statement endorsed by Wemimo Oyelana, Director, CWC Africa and sent to the Amehnews disclosed that DMG events will continue to monitor the situation and plan to implement the necessary safety and sanitary precautions. We look forward to collaborating with you to deliver a successful 20th edition of the NOG Strategic Conference & International Exhibition. Our dedicated team will be in regular contact with the latest updates. In the meantime, please contact us for further information here: nog@dmgevents.com. 