The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) is not interested in destroying anybody’s goods or property because it is a big loss to the person and the Nation and unfriendly to the environment The Director-General Of Standards Organisation Of Nigeria (SON) , Barrister Osita Aboloma at the Sensitization Workshop For The Maritime Sector  organsied by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria in collaboration with the Council for the Regulation Of Freight Forwarders In Nigeria (CRFFN), Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) And National Association Of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) On Tuesday, Lagos.   Aboloma was ably represents at the event by Engr. Obiora Manafa Director, Inspectorate & Compliance Directorate Standards Organisation of Nigeria who said that is why SON is putting so much resource to educate the public. We should also bear in mind that ignorance if the law is no excuse.   The SON DG noted that the essence of these Sensitization and Awareness Creation Programmes is to carry all our stakeholders and the general public along in our activities and educate them on the need and importance of adhering to the rules, guidelines for importation and compliance with standards. We don’t want importers or clearing agents to feign ignorant of the import requirements of SON, he added.   The director general disclosed that Messrs Kachi Don Divine Star Investment Limited Product have Electric Cables (Zunek Brand) Offence due to failed Tests/Substandard, Messrs Dindu & Kanso Nigeria Limited Product have Electric Cables (Sunrise Brand) Offence: (a) Failed tests/substandard cables (b) All the cables kept on hold at the importers premises were carted away by the importer (c) Process is still on to address the matter and Mr. Alex Joe Okpala Product have used Cylinders Offence: Imported used cylinders already expired Once the court Orders are obtained, we shall position all the substandard products for destruction.   “We urge each and every one of our numerous stakeholders to key into SON’s numerous activities and collaborate with us in our fight against the influx of substandard products. Nevertheless, SON will not hesitate to arrest and prosecute those that wilfully import substandard products into the country in line with the SON Act No. 14 of 2015, he noted.   “We have a mandate to protect the lives and properties of Nigerian and we will continue to achieve this mandate by the special grace of God. According to him this is our primary responsibility and we shall not leave any stone unturned in living up to this task.   Let’s work together as a team and free Nigeria of substandard products, Barrister Aboloma stated.  