….. advocated more investment in the creative industry to drive its contribution to the Nigerian economy Nigeria’s music industry witnessed an explosion over the past decade, growing by 9 per cent in 2016 to hit $39 million, and is set to grow by 13.4 per cent by 2021, with an estimated worth of about $73 million, according to statistics. From left: Head, Digital, Events & Sponsorships, Unity Bank, Bashir Salami, Founder/CEO of Sparkle, Uzoma Dozie, Head, Retail & SME Banking, Opeyemi Ojesina, CEO of Kuda, Babs Ogundeyi and Partner, PwC, Chijioke Uwaegbute after a panel session on “Financing the Music” at the just concluded Social Media Week, Lagos. One of Nigeria’s commercial lenders, Unity Bank Plc has advocated more investment in the creative industry to drive its contribution to the Nigerian economy. The Head, Personal & SME, Unity Bank Plc, Mr. Opeyemi Ojesina made the call in Lagos on Wednesday while speaking at a panel to explore financing options for the music industry at the just concluded Social Media Week. Highlighting impediments to flow of credits and investment, Ojesina stated that the music industry with the involvement of stakeholders in financial services sector needs a deliberate action plan to boost investment that will grow opportunities for entrepreneurs in the sector. “To attract the required funding in the music industry, all the stakeholders involved must be deliberate about it. But most importantly, the people in the industry must begin to understand the business of their craft and build the necessary structure that would enable financial institutions to make an informed investment decision’’, Ojesina said. Also speaking, the Head of Digital, Events & Sponsorships, Unity Bank Plc, Bashir Salami reiterated that the Bank has been exploring several financing strategies to support musicians and grow the industry. He added that, “before the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, came out with the Creative Funding Initiative, CFI, the Bank has supported a number of artistes to promote initiatives and projects that resonates with corporate objective of the Bank,” citing the endorsement deal with Adekunle Gold in 2018 as the most significant project to enhance the Bank’s contribution to the growth of the Nigerian music industry. The session was hosted by Beat FM in partnership with Unity Bank Plc. Titled: “Financing the Music” it had in attendance over hundreds of musicians and creative industry entrepreneurs. About Unity Bank Plc We are one of Nigeria’s leading retail banks with over 200 business offices spread across the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory of Nigeria. The Bank offers wide-ranging financial services to individuals, businesses and the public sector of the nation’s economy. As a further commitment to the growth of the nation’s economy, Unity Bank focuses on SMEs and Agribusinesses. We are driven by the vision to be the retail bank of choice for all Nigerians and this is at the core of all that we do. 