One of Nigeria’s foremost IMC professionals, Fred Akinmuyisitan who was Noah’s Ark’s Deputy Director, Account Planning has migrated from the agency side of business as he left the services of the multiple award-winning agency to join Nigerian Breweries Plc as Head, Marketing, Strategy & Planning.Fred Akinmuyisitan Prior to venturing into mainstream advertising, Fred worked as a researcher and features lead for Brand Communicator, Nigeria’s multiple award-winning, most prominent and most consistent marketing communications journal, where he provided editorial direction and critical analysis on issues in the advertising community. He has cross industry experience in working with brands in diverse sectors such as technology, industrial goods, pay TV, financial services, as well as an in depth understanding of the FMCG markets in West Africa. Fred is the strategist behind the resurgence of the Airtel brand in Nigeria, and was responsible for developing the creative strategy that brought about brand platforms such as ‘Data is Life’ and ‘The In-Laws,’ platforms which have gone on to drive commercial results for the business. In a message on his LinkedIn page, Fred captured the half decade he spent at the agency with the highlight being the cordial relationship he has had with his colleagues. On his role within the organization, he wrote: “I’m genuinely humbled by some of the work done and the brands built. Our brand of planning was one that understood consumers deeply and business problems clearly, kept an open mind to how agnostic insights are and constantly being a sparring partner with the creative team and clients all along the process. “Here’s saying thank you to the leadership of the agency for building a culture that allowed young people like me the freedom to lead, experiment, fail, and succeed. “…I might have had my last official day at Noah’s Ark, but I’d remain an Arknimal for life,” he wrote. Fred is an award-winning account planner at various global and regional advertising festivals including the Loeries, African Cristal, Epica Awards, and won the first ever creative effectiveness medal at Lagos Advertising and Ideas Festival. Among his many achievements at Noah’s Ark, he was influential in new business pitch wins for the agency such as Airtel Nigeria, Peak Milk, Nigerite Plc., Travelstart Nigeria, Heritage Bank Limited, JAMZ FM, Noor Takaful, and Nokia. He also crafted the campaign narrative and wrote Nigeria’s first ever gold winning case study at the African Cristal Awards 2017 in Marrakech, Boko Halal (Project Shoes). In 2018, he was one of the Grand Jury members at New York Festivals, representing Middle East and Africa region. Akinmuyisitan studied food science and technology at the Federal University of Technology, Akure, FUTA. He recently attended Lagos Business School, Pan-Atlantic University where he did a course on Senior Management Program (SMP 71) on Business, Management, Marketing, and Related Support Services. Arknimals Brand Communicator Fred Akinmuyisitan Nigerian Breweries plc Noah’s Ark