President of African Development Bank (AFDB), Dr Akinwunmi Adesina will deliver the keynote address at the opening ceremony of the 32nd Annual Conference of African Public Relations Association (APRA) scheduled to hold in Dare es Salaam, Tanzania on Tuesday May 12, 2020. In a letter confirming his acceptance to speak on APRA Tanzania 2020 theme: One Africa! March to Economic Integration and the Role of Public Relations, Dr Akinwunmi Adesina stated that “Africa has to tell its own stories and drive positive change. The African Continental Free Trade Agreement recently endorsed by the African Union member countries will be a key driver of the change. Free trade across the continent resonates with AFDB’s strategies to integrate and industrialized Africa”.  While responding to the confirmation, President of African Public Relations Association, Mr Yomi Badejo-Okusanya appreciated Dr Akinwunmi Adesina and added that “APRA is honoured by the AFDB President’s acceptance which shows his passion and commitment to building the Africa we desire. This will forever remain in the blueprint of Africa” he concluded.  APRA Tanzania 2020 is endorsed by the African Union Commission, Government of Republic of Tanzania, International Public Relations Association (IPRA), Global Alliance for Public Relations and Communications Management(GA), Public Relations Society of Tanzania and National PR Associations across Africa.  The conference will bring together professionals in public relations, media, brand management, advertising, government and other marketing Communications practitioners while parading an enviable array of speakers and facilitators from Africa , Europe and America.  It will also play host to the SABRE Awards Africa for the fourth time in a role and 2nd Innovation Summit which for the second time is hosted outside South Africa on APRA’s platform. The SABRE Awards Africa showcases the best works in public relations across the continent.  Delegates will also have the opportunity to experience the rich culture of Tanzania and tourist attractions in Zanzibar.  APRA is the umbrella body for the practice of public relations in Africa established to foster unity via interaction and exchange of ideas among public relations practitioners in Africa and through communications, promote social, political and economic integration on the continent. 