 Despite suing for peace and rallying support for his successor, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, the dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, has instructed his legal team to challenge his banishment and detention by security operatives in court. Sanusi, who was banished from Kano to Loko, a village in Nasarawa Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, was yesterday moved to Awe town, the headquarters of Awe Local Government Area of the state by the state government. Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje, had dethroned Sanusi on Monday, citing his alleged disobedience to constituted authorities, among others, as the reason for his ouster.
Ganduje’s Special Adviser on Media, Mr. Salihu Yakassai, yesterday expatiated on Sanusi’s dethronement, saying one of the reasons for his removal was the former emir’s frequent public criticism of Ganduje’s administration, adding that no government could condone the former emir’s criticisms. But a human rights lawyer and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Femi Falana, faulted Sanusi’s dethronement, saying it could not stand in any court if challenged. Addressing journalists yesterday in Kano, the head of the legal team of the deposed emir, Mr. Abubakar Mahmoud (SAN), said Sanusi, through his chief of staff, had directed them to challenge the legality of his banishment and detention in court. “We are of the firm view that this action is illegal and unconstitutional. Section 35 of our constitution guarantees every citizen the right to personal liberty. The archaic practice of banishment of deposed emirs, a colonial practice, has no basis under Nigerian law or the constitution. We are totally perplexed at the resort to this practice in present day Nigeria by its political leaders,” he stated. He explained that they had written to the Inspector General of Police and Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS) to ensure the immediate release of Sanusi within the next 24 hours or face legal action. He said: “We are concerned about the personal safety and security of His Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II, and wish to call on all well-meaning Nigerians and the international community to bring their influence to bear to ensure that His Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi, regains his liberty immediately and to guarantee his safety and security. “The legal team of his highness is working both in Kano and Abuja and unless he is released immediately, we will be taking appropriate legal action.”
He said the Kano State Emirate Council Law, which was recently enacted by the state did not give the State Executive Council or the governor the powers to unilaterally remove the emir. Mahmoud said: “The reason given in the letter of deposition of the emir dated 9th March 2020, was alleged ‘disrespect to lawful instructions from the authorities.’ The emir was also alleged to have ‘refused to attend official programmes and meetings organised by the government. ’ As far as we are aware, there has not been any notice of such disrespect ever given to the emir or query issued to him for refusal to attend official functions. “He was never given any opportunity to defend himself against those charges. Section 13 of the Kano Emirates Council Law, 2019 cited in the letter of deposition empowers the governor to depose an emir only after due inquiry and in consultation with the State Council of Chiefs. “Since the deposition was announced, I was at the palace yesterday (Monday) afternoon in the company of one of my colleagues to consult with the emir. “In the letter of deposition, it was stated that the emir was to be removed to Nasarawa State. We requested to know if he was under arrest and if so we needed to see the warrant. The Commissioner of Police informed us that he was not under arrest. We informed the Commissioner of Police that it was illegal and a violation of his constitutional rights to remove him to Nasarawa State against his wish. “The emir informed the Commissioner of Police that his friends had sent an aircraft to fly him and his family to Lagos and requested that they should be provided with the necessary security to the airport so that he could leave. The commissioner refused, saying that was not their instruction. They were willing to allow the family to leave for Lagos but he was to be flown to Abuja then taken onwards to Nasarawa State. “We accompanied the Commissioner of Police to the Nigerian Air Force base in Kano where the emir was put in a private aircraft and departed about 6.40 p.m. The family subsequently boarded the aircraft arranged by his friends and departed for Lagos about 15 minutes later.” El-Rufai Gives Sanusi New Appointment A day after his dethronement, the Kaduna State Government yesterday named Sanusi a board member of the State Investment Promotion Agency (KADIPA).
A statement signed by Special Adviser to the governor on Media and Publicity, Mr. Muyiwa Adekeye, said the governor approved the reconstitution of the board of KADIPA with Sanusi as the vice-chairman of the agency. Established in 2015, KADIPA has led the investment drive of the state and anchored the implementation of the Ease of Doing Business Charter that earned Kaduna State World Bank recognition as the number one place for doing business in Nigeria. “Malam Nasir El-Rufai has appointed His Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II, into the board of KADIPA. The appointment is part of the reconstitution of the board of KADIPA, which is statutorily chaired by the deputy governor and has as internal members, senior officials of the Kaduna State Government,” Adekeye said. “El-Rufai said that Kaduna State hopes to benefit from the profile, experience, intellect and networks of His Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II, who before becoming emir had built a solid reputation in global financial circles.”
The new board, which has 13 other members, would be chaired by the state Deputy Governor, Dr. Hadiza Balarabe, while Sanusi would serve as vice-chairman.