Demutualisation generally refers to the process of converting an Exchange or Company from a non-profit, mutually owned broker-dealer membership organisation to a shareholder-owned, for-profit corporation. Members of a mutual Exchange are both owners with voting rights and users with trading privileges. In a fully demutualised Exchange, shareholders are investors in the business of the exchange. Trading rights of participants in the market run by the Exchange are created by separate contracts between the participant and the Exchange. The board of directors and corporate governance structure of the Exchange reflects the broader share ownership. The demutualisation of the Nigerian Stock Exchange process started since 2001 but it was inactive process till 2011 when it was reflected by the paper presented titled “The Roles and Expectations of Regulators in the Demutualisation Process” on that note that a 21-member technical committee was inaugurated by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC charged with developing a legal framework for the demutualization process. The committee was given a term of reference among others with three months to submit the report. In 2014 SEC issued final draft rules on demutaulisation of Exchanges in Nigeria. The final rules on the demutualization was released on April 27, 2015 with no existing company laws and regulations framework which led to some technical blockage or a cog in the wheel of progress or journey. Nevertheless, the frame work and legal requirements for the exchange or company to be demutualise was formaisled three years later by the demutualization of the Nigerian Stock Exchange Act 2018(no 14 of 2018) or know as (“the Demutualisation Act or the Act”) which was enacted on July 29, 2018 following the receipt of presidential Assent. That presidential assent has given the process the second journey since then till today’s meeting where a 59 years, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) is on verged of joins 56 elite league of demutualised exchanges around the world. As at today’s court ordered meeting which will follow up shortly by extra general meeting was held on Tuesday, for official commenced of the last process toward demutualisation. This followed an endorsement from the court ordered meeting (COM) and an Extra-ordinary General Meeting (EGM) held separately in Lagos as was stated above.L – R shows Mr. Oscar N. Onyema, OON, Chief Executive Officer, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Otunba Abimbola Ogunbanjo, President of Council, NSE; Mrs. Mojisola Adeola, Council Secretary, NSE and Aigbojie Aig-Imokhuede, CON,  Ex-Officio, NSE during a Court Ordered Meeting (COM) and an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) at the Civic Center, Lagos today in Lagos. What happened at the COM was that the members assented to: the change of name of NSE and registration of the Exchange as Nigerian Exchange Group. Therefore  the functions of NSE has been transfer  to its as Securities Exchange License and other assets required to carry out the securities function to Nigerian Exchange Limited and the establishment of a separate subsidiary company to be charged with the regulatory functions of the Exchange post-demutualisation to be called NGX Regulation Limited. The members equally approved the transfer of the assets of NSE Consult Limited, NSE Nominees Limited and Coral Properties Limited – existing subsidiaries of the NSE – to the Nigerian Exchange Group Plc. They also approved that the Exchange will have a total share capital of one billion two hundred and fifty million (N1,250,000,000) which comprising two billion five hundred million (2,500,000,000) ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to be registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). The members equally assent to the allotment of 1,964,115,918 ordinary shares to Dealing Members and Ordinary Members on the basis of a ratio of 78:22, respectively. A Claims Review Shares totaling 40,083,999 ordinary shares, representing two per cent of the Issued Shares of Nigerian Exchange Group, would be set aside for allotment to parties who are adjudged as being entitled to shares in the demutualised Exchange. According to the statement cited in the scheme of arrangement disclosed that, the shares of the former NSE would not be listed immediately after the end of demutualization, but later. The statement stress further that this would be after other documentation and registrations would have been perfected. With the process, the NSE would be unbundled and the Nigerian Exchange Group Plc would be a non-operating holding company. Under the holding company, there would be subsidiaries, which would include the operating Exchange. L – R shows Mr. Oscar N. Onyema, OON, Chief Executive Officer, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Otunba Abimbola Ogunbanjo, President of Council, NSE; Mrs. Mojisola Adeola, Council Secretary, NSE and Mr. Aigbojie Aig-Imokhuede, CON, Ex-Officio, NSE during a Court Ordered Meeting (COM) and an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) at the Civic Center, Lagos today in Lagos.  Also, at the EGM members appointed a board of directors of the demutualised exchange as follows: Mr. Abimbola Ogunbanjo, who is the current President of the NSE Council emerging as the chairman. Mr. Oscar Onyema retains as the chief executive officer and managing director. While Dr. Umaru Kwairanga; Mrs. Fatimah Bintah Bello-Ismail; Others are: Mr. Oluwole Adeosun; Mr. Chidi Agbapu; Mr. Patrick Ajayi, were all members and non-executive directors and Dr. Okechukwu Crescent Itanyi, Mrs. Nimi Akinkugbe, Prof. Enase Okonedo who were appointed independent directors; Mr. Ikpobe Apollos Oghooritsewarami and Mrs. Ojinika Nkechinyelu Olaghere who were appointed independent non-executive directors. Mr. Abimbola Ogunbanjo, who is the current President of the NSE Council emerging as the chairman said demutualisation of the Exchange would benefit the economy in more ways than one. He revealed that post-demutualisation, the emerging entities would be subject to companies’ income tax and other relevant taxes payable by for-profit organisations, thereby providing additional source of tax revenue for the Nigerian government. Ogunbanjo, anticipated that it would reinforce the continuous growth and development of a dynamic, fair, transparent and efficient capital market and thus significantly contribute to Nigeria’s economic development. “The demutualisation of the Exchange will surely bring about changes in the market structure with more participants. It will also give rise to improved corporate governance, higher levels of efficiency and lower transactions costs which will inadvertently attract more listings to the market. “Furthermore, we expect a general boost in confidence both from investors and issuers resulting from increased trade activities and better opportunities for international alliances and cross border listings. We believe the value proposition associated with demutualisation will encourage more listings. “Our focus to increase retail participation and protect investors in our market will be unchanged. Retail investors will continue to have access to diversified asset classes for growing wealth and through the Investors’ Protection Fund we will continue to restitution proven cases of infractions but more importantly on artificial intelligence driven market monitoring system will be sustained. “Ultimately, when the Exchange is ready to float new shares for the investing public, retail investors would be a key consideration for the allocation of shares,” he added. Also speaking,Mr. Oscar Onyema who was retains as the chief executive officer and managing director, noted that the meetings moved the demutualisation process significantly forward, adding that the positive outcomes affirmed the great interest from members to support the pivotal restructuring of the exchange to become globally competitive. According to him, in furtherance of the plan, they would move to file the necessary resolutions from the COM and all other required documents at the Corporate Affairs Commission and SEC, obtain the Court Order sanctioning of the scheme, complete all necessary registrations and seek the final approval from the SEC to ultimately demutualise. Onyema, explained that members of the Exchange had approved the demutualisation scheme of the Exchange in March 2017. This, he said was followed by the signing of the Demutualisation of The Nigerian Stock Exchange Bill into law in August 2018. In December 2019, the SEC had also in a No Objection letter gave its consent to the NSE to hold the COM and EGM that would facilitate its conversion from a not-for-profit entity limited by guarantee into a profit-making, public limited liability company owned by shareholders. Onyema, pointed out that a number of benefits will accrue to the stock market once the process is finalised. He explained that it would bring about the diversification of the financial system. “As you know, with a more agile and efficient Exchange, we would have a better capital market that can be able to complement the banking sector, which presently dominates the funding of entities,” he said. In addition, the NSE boss pointed out that African stock exchanges generally have liquidity challenge, saying that with a better exchange that is agile and more competitive, the liquidity challenge on the Nigerian stock market would be addressed. This, according to him, would make the market serve the Nigerian economy better. Oscar added: “The other economic benefit would actually be wealth creation for the general populace. “Again, if you have a demutualised NSE that is listed itself, that means the general populace can actually buy the shares and benefit from the growth of the Exchange. “So, because it is listed, it will be better governed and better managed, it will have more flexibility to raise capital. So, all these are expected to support the general populace who are shareholders.” According to him, with demutualisation, the branding of the company would improve, because it would be viewed as a modernised Exchange with independent directors. A former Director General of  the exchange, Prof. Ndi Okereke-Onyiuke, affirmed the process so far with am satisfied with the outcome of the meetings, noting that demutualisation was good for the whole Nigerians. She pointed out that: “Though we started it but it did not happen, but we have been following through to ensure it happens. It is good, not only for stockbrokers and investors but for the whole Nigerians. It is good to have a demutualised exchange in Nigeria. “I feel that people have come to understand what the stock exchange really means with this demutualisation, a lot of people will come into the exchange since we have already gone through the process of teaching Nigerians how to be shareholders in quoted companies.” According to her, with demutualisation, the exchange can attract further highly experienced staff as well as foreign investors, foreign stockbroking firms and foreign direct investment. “With this demutualisation, anybody in any part of the world can have access, the exchange will have a lot of money to execute high level plans that they have and people that will invest in the exchange will also make money. continue with 11 series