Considering science, technology and innovation pivotal role in the development and diversification economy The Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology, Dr. M. B. Umar said the theme of this year’s edition “The Fourth Industrial Revolution and Nigerian Manufacturing Sector” is unique and appropriate considering the pivotal role science, technology and innovation play in the development and diversification of our economy. LR:Ag DG MAN, Mr Ambrose Oruche, Rep Perm Sec, Ministry of Science and Technology, Alhaji Shuaibu Umar, President of MAN Engr Mansur Ahmed, National Treasurer of MAN, Rev Isaac Ade-Agoye, Rep of DG RMRDC, Dr Olugbemi and Chairman MAN power Development Company, Engr Usman Ibrahim at the closing ceremony of the 3Day NME/NIRAM 2020 Expo on March 12,2020 He stated this during closing remarks at the 5th Nigeria Manufacturing and Equipment Expo (NME) & 6th Nigerian Raw Materials Exposition (NIRAM Expo) held in Lagos Umar noted that the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology in its quest to popularize and inculcate ST&I culture in Nigeria among others, for rapid socio-economic transformation conceived this event. According to him, the primary objective of NME/NIRAN Expo is in line with Technology Expo which is encouraging interactions between Researchers and Investors with the view to commercializing our research results, products and services. This event will also showcase the capabilities of the Nigerian Scientists, Engineers, Innovators/Inventors and other allied professionals and their contributions to our economy, he added. Perm secretary highlights the benefits of the Technology Expo of the Ministry always presents Awards to the winners of various categories such as Research Institutes, inventors and Higher Institutions (Academia), Technology Entreprenuers, Junior Engineers, Technicians and Scientist (JETS).Hence, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC) are encouraged to do same to winners. He noted that some of our research results, goods and services will be taken to the market by our esteemed Investors. In his words: “I wish to state that the Ministry will continue to pursue its policy to support and encourage MAN and RMRDC as well as the stakeholders to ensure that our country has a large, strong, diversified, sustainable and competitive economy that effectively harnesses the talent and energies of its people and responsibly exploits its natural endowments to guarantee a high standard of living and quality of life for its citizens.  Umar applauds the President, MAN, Director General, RMRDC and Exhibitors from other Ministries Departments and Agencies including the organized private sector that despite their tight schedule attended the event. 