The manufacturing sector is at the centre of the federal government’s strategy for attaining sustainable growth and fulfilling its promise to lift 100 million people out of poverty over the next ten years. Vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, said this during opening ceremony of a joint event, the 5th edition of the Nigeria Manufacturing and Equipment Expo (NME) and the 6th edition of the Nigerian Raw Materials Expo (NIRAM) of the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC), in Lagos  Osinbajo who was represented by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Chief Niyi Adebayo, added that Nigeria is gearing up to take advantage of these changes but the challenges that remain are significant.  The vice President said no other sector provides a stronger linkage to creating new jobs, improving value addition and creating wealth for 50 per cent of Nigeria’s workforce beside the agricultural sector, adding that the country is at a crucial point in its economic history as a nation.  In his words: “We stand on the brink of the fourth industrial revolution, a technological revolution that will fundamentally alter the way we live, work and relate with one another.  “Also imminent is the emergence of the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), if President Buhari ratified the agreement and if the committee is sure that Nigerian industries will be protected, an agreement that would change the way the positioning of the Nigerian market and the way trade is carried out in Africa.”   Engr. Mansur Ahmed, President, Manufacturers Association Of Nigeria, MAN, in his welcome address at the opening ceremony of the 2020 edition of the fifth Nigeria Manufacturing And Equipment Expo (NME) and sixth Nigeria Raw Materials Expo holding today in Lagos said MAN appreciates the Federal Government’s support for manufacturers particularly in ensuring that the operating environment becomes increasingly conducive to help businesses thrive notwithstanding the fast-growing competitive environment.   President of MAN, said the theme of the Expo is informed by the observed global trends and current development experienced in some developing nations, which have used industrialization as a growth tool to drive and transform their economy as well as improve their standards of living.   Engr Ahmed noted that “Ahead of the implementation of the AfCFTA which will open our manufacturing sector to a much larger market, Nigeria manufacturers have to adopt the use of new technology to compete favourably with other nations that will be participating in the free trade market.   “The emergence of new technology, changing markets and the upcoming African free trade market calls for stakeholders collaboration to anticipate and response appropriately to the evolving manufacturing eco-system which is been ushered in the rapid adoption of these new and innovative technology. These new technologies which are largely driven by digital revolution such as robotics, cloud computing, big data, artificial intelligence, additive manufacturing are influencing manufacturing input and output, he added. 