    At a ceremony marking the refurbishment of Afriland Towers, the state-of-the-art office building, the Governor of Lagos State, His Excellency Mr. Babajde Sanwo-Olu praised Afriland Properties Plc for the successful renovation and commissioning of the world-class 8-floor office complex – Afriland Towers on Friday, with dignitaries including the Oba of Lagos, HRH Rilwan Aremu Akiolu and Erelu Angela Adebayo, Founding Chairperson, Afriland Properties Plc, and Chairman of Heirs Holdings, Tony Elumelu, present. Publicly quoted company, Afriland is one of Nigeria’s leading institutional real estate owners and developers, with a portfolio in excess of N100 Billion.  L-R: Tony O. Elumelu, CON, Chairman, Heirs Holdings and UBA Group Plc; Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Governor of Lagos State; Uzo Oshogwe, CEO, Afriland Properties Plc; Dr. Awele Elumelu, Chairperson, Avon Healthcare; Emmanuel Nnorom, CEO, Heirs Holdings; at the commissioning of the Afriland Towers, over the weekend. The Afriland Towers development is a key element in the redevelopment of the Central Business District of Lagos.  At the event, the distinguished guests were taken on a tour of the 8-floor business complex, boasting an open plan office environment, with floor to ceiling windows, overlooking the bustling Marina district, whose contemporary décor is enhanced by energy-saving utilities, and spacious parking for the convenience of visitors.  Impressed by the ambience and size of the development, Governor Sanwo-Olu commended Tony Elumelu, CON, Chairman of Heirs Holdings, a lead investor in Afriland Properties Plc.  “My very good friend and brother Tony Elumelu continues to make Nigeria proud. His example of making strategic investments in infrastructure, that creates public good, is one we should all applaud.  It is an honour to be here this afternoon to see yet again, an underperforming asset turned into what we are witnessing here”.  The Governor expressed his commitment to collaborating with Afriland for the development of the state.  He said: “Afriland is making long term investments, that are greatly helping the revival of Central Business District of Lagos – I am delighted that Afriland is so clearly contributing to the redevelopment of Lagos.  I want to thank the board and management of Afriland Properties for taking this bold initiative.  You have put real money where your mouth is.  I can assure you that we have seen you as a partner and we will continue to collaborate with you.  We are going to rebuild all our buildings to meet with the international standard Afriland Properties has set, and so, we are just going to ask all of you:  If you want to build anything in Lagos, just go to Afriland.” He continued: “We are in government because we want the private sector to work, to thrive and to do well.  When the private sector does well, the government does well, when the government does well, then our people benefit.  We tackle poverty, unemployment, and education – something I am absolutely committed to”.  Tony Elumelu in his remarks commended the Governor’s vision for a prosperous Lagos and emphasised the importance of private-public collaboration to catalyse development and employment in Lagos. The newly commissioned Afriland Towers in Lagos Island He said: “We appreciate our Governor for what he stands for.  He wants a world-class and prosperous environment, something I share – investment in infrastructure, whether power, buildings or indeed human capital – is something I believe in fundamentally.  I want to see a thriving and redeveloped Lagos Island.  What we are doing here today is just the beginning of what we want to do at Falomo.  We want to realise the potential of Lagos.  Falomo is a unique property, a place where we want to showcase the potential of Lagos and what it can become.  We are looking forward to engaging with Lagos State further, so we can all develop this historic and flagship location, which truly puts our city on the global map”.   ABOUT AFRILAND TOWERS:  Afriland Towers is a fully serviced, 8-floor business complex situated in the heart of Lagos business district, Marina.  Formerly known as ‘Raymond House’, the newly renovated complex contains an open plan office setting with floor to ceiling windows, overlooking the bustling Marina district, modern décor enhanced by energy saving utilities, and spacious parking lots for the convenience of its visitors.  The complex was designed and developed by pan-African property development, investment and management company, Afriland Properties Plc. 