Khumo Mokheti, the representative of the United State Agency for International Development (USAID) has underscored the importance of gender equality to increased productivity and thriving in the workplace.  Mokheti, disclosed this at the 2020 D.I.S.C.O for Women Conference organised by the agency in partnership with Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC).  The event Discussing Issues Surrounding Career Opportunities (D.I.S.C.O) was entitled ‘Gender Equality in IBEDC’.  Mokheti stated that gender equality and equity have been a subject of debate since the 50s without consensus as to what it means.  She however noted that there was an agreement in terms of the basis which is an absence of discrimination on the basis of gender.  Others are provision of equal opportunities for both male and female while equity is a process, a means to an end in achieving gender parity, a stage of total transformation.  Mokheti said “Equality is a very important aspect at this stage as we are heading towards the fourth industrial revolution.  “We require a different set of skills; the revolution is going to require that we bring all our talent and work together both men and women.”  She further said “In the past there used to be barriers but now with advanced technology the nature of the barriers have changed.  “There are less barriers for women, what that opens for us is an opportunity for talent, an opportunity to grow and thrive.  “So gender equality is really about bringing the two sex together to focus and build partnerships to ensure we flourish as a nation and companies.  “To be highly competitive, competent and thrive as a nation we would need to engage all possible talents, men and women alike.  “We need to start from training girls and boys from home to primary, high school, University and right after they start working.  “This would ensure that in the pipeline there is balance and empowerment of men and women to flourish and advance as a country. ”  The USAID representative said women form 49 per cent of the total population and if they are not included the world would be missing 49 per cent of the available talents.  In his address the Engr John Ayodele Chief Operating Officer, IBEDC represented by Mr Deolu Ijose, the Chief Commercial Officer said the project was incubated by USAID since 2016, in form of training and carrying notable expenses to engender utilities of the company.  He said “It was geared towards promotion of gender equality and at the same time ensures that our women have the sense of belonging within the entity to do better.  “For instance in IBEDC, there is a strong gender equality statement and that we will continue to keep.  “And that is why USAID is in the forefront of pushing us and assisting us to foster harmony so that we can benchmark ourselves towards best practices world wide.”  Also, Mrs Ehi Obaseki, the Chief Human Resources Officer, IBEDC said the company is moving from gender equality into gender transformation.  She said the workplace is conducive and everyone is treated fairly and equally regardless of their gender.  Obaseki said efforts are geared towards ensuring that women grow in their career paths.  “I really hope that we will have the support of the employees to see that we achieve all our aims and objectives of our gender programme, ” she said.  The event featured the launch of Gender Mentoring Program as well as panel session which addresses issues of productivity, sexual harassment and balancing as well as growth in workplace.