Zenith General Insurance Company Limited (commonly known as Zenith Insurance) has, in a trailblazing move, partnered with Telecommunications giant – MTN Nigeria to provide the first ever mobile insurance service in Nigeria. Mr. Jim Ovia, CON, Chairman, Prudential Zenith Life (5th Left) flanked by Onyinye Ikenna-Emeka, GM, Enterprise Marketing, MTN Nigeria (1st Left); Ajibola Olabisi Bankole, Deputy Director (Inspectorate), NAICOM (2nd Left); Mazen Mroue, Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria (3rd Left); Lynda Saint-Nwafor, Chief Enterprise Business Officer, MTN Nigeria (4th Left); Alhaji Mohammed C. Babajika, Director, Licensing and Authorization, NCC (5th Right); Professor Oyewusi Ibidapo-Obe, Former Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos (4th Right); Kehinde Borisade, CEO, Zenith General Insurance (3rd Right); Chuks Igumbor, MD, Prudential Zenith life Insurance (2nd Right); and Olubayo Adekanmbi, Chief Transformation Officer, MTN Nigeria (1st Right) at the launch of the Prudential Zenith Life Mobile Payment Service in Lagos on Wednesday, March 18, 2020. Using the USSD code *5966#, customers can now buy Third Party Motor Insurance and Personal Accident Insurance on the go, on their mobile phones, whether or not they have access to the internet. It is the dawn of a new era in the Nigerian insurance industry, and Zenith Insurance is at the forefront.  Speaking at the launch of the product at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos on Wednesday, March 18, 2020, the Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria,MazenMroue,said: “Financial Inclusion is imperative for economic development and access to insurance is a key component of this. MTN is glad to be the enabling platform for the delivery of digital insurance through mobile phones. We congratulate, Zenith General Insurance and Prudential Zenith Life Insurance for courageously blazing a trail.”  According to KehindeBorisade, Chief Executive Officer of Zenith Insurance, “There are a lot of misconceptions around the concept of Insurance especially in developing nations such as ours. We at Zenith Insurance are committed to dispelling those notions of insurance being an abstract concept sold by weary old men in dusty shoes, who are nowhere to be found, the minute you have a claim. We are bringing Insurance to the fingertips of the ordinary Nigerian who is looking for convenience in his day to day dealings, as well as speed in service delivery. The USSD platform is something that anyone, anywhere, as long as they have a mobile phone can have access to. You don’t even need to have a data plan.”  Presently, customers have the opportunity to purchase mandatory Third-Party Motor Insurance- to cover against damages to othermotorists and their vehiclesand Personal Accident Insurance- a policy that provides purchasers and their loved ones with the assurance that should they suffer any injury that results in disablement or death, they will be compensated financially for treatment, hospitalization, time out of work or permanent disability. Within two minutes, anyone anywhere in Nigeria can have an Insurance policy.  This novel development will revolutionise the way insurance works in Nigeria. Life just got better, Insurance just got better. Welcome to the EazyLife!