……..being our brothers and sisters keepers. It is glaring that nations and businesses across the world have come to a standstill due to the ravaging Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.  Paul Ogbuokiri, President, AMJON in a press statement said that there is no gain saying the fact that the human race is facing one of the most trying times in recent history.  Ogbuokiri noted the total lockdown and “Social Distancing” of nations, its people and businesses has called for strategic partnership and show of love among various nations, families, entities and organizations.  Thus, he said, the Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON) a group of media professionals reporting the maritime and the shipping sector wishes at this time to join other national and international leaders and organisations to preach the gospel of safety and protective living.  AMJON as a corporate body, the president said wants to assure its members, colleagues and all stakeholders in the Maritime industry that all should keep to the safety rules of shunning large crowds, self distancing, personal hygiene and self isolation if the need arises.  We want to also appeal to the multinationals and government agencies in the Maritime Sector to extend safety facilities like hand sensitizers, hand gloves, even financial supports to help other stakeholders, especially the journalists who are constantly and practically involve in everyday activities to keep the stakeholders and other Nigerians duly inform on daily basis.  We can boldly say that at this time, the maritime media is mostly needed alongside medical personnel who are on the field discharging their social functions of informing the Nigeria public of the pandemic and various safety nets to curtail the pandemic.  AMJON wants to call on the NPA, NIMASA, NCS, NSC, CRFFN, terminal operators, shipping companies, freight forwarding associations and Customs Brokers to rally round all stakeholders, especially the media to aid them discharge their functions effectively, but at the same time stay alive for their families and the nation at large.  We appreciate the efforts of the federal government and some states government in their bid  to contain the spread of this virus.  At this time it’s very important to always check on our friends, colleagues, clients, brothers and sisters, not leaving out our stakeholders and business partners as a way of being our brothers and sisters keepers. He noted that at time like this no group should be left behind adding that for sure there is hope in the horizon that we shall all come out stronger as a nation.