Engr. Mansur Ahmed, President, Manufacturers Association Of Nigeria, MAN, in his welcome address at the opening ceremony of the 2020 edition of the fifth Nigeria Manufacturing And Equipment Expo (NME) and sixth Nigeria Raw Materials Expo holding today in Lagos said MAN appreciates the Federal Government’s support for manufacturers particularly in ensuring that the operating environment becomes increasingly conducive to help businesses thrive notwithstanding the fast-growing competitive environment. Engr Ahmed noted that the presence of key Economic Ministers or their Representatives at this event is highly appreciated.  He also appreciated the Host Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Executive Governor of Lagos State adding that your presence is key to understanding the level of support manufacturers in Lagos require at this time. We sincerely appreciate the good understanding between the State Government and manufacturers in the state over the years and I believe your Administration will take the existing cordial relationship to higher level.  “Permit me to specially recognize the presence of the Director General of the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC), Prof. Hussaini Doko Ibrahim and other officials of the Council. “This annual marketplace for stakeholders affords us an opportunity to examine the state of the manufacturing sector and deliberate on the roadmap for the development. Both exhibitions continue to serve a great purpose in improving the status of the nation’s manufacturing sector particularly with the representation of the entire manufacturing value chain at the Expo Floor since inception in 2016. “Today as we kick-off with the opening ceremony of the 5th edition of the Nigerian Manufacturing Equipment Expo (NME) and the 6th edition of the Nigerian Raw Materials Expo (NIRAM).The 2019 edition of the Expo impacted greatly on the Nigerian economy, as attested to by participants across various sectors of the economy, he added. According to him, Indeed, this year’s edition is a continuation of the success story we recorded in the previous editions and we are indeed grateful to all those who have continued to support this cause. “This year’s NME Expo is quite unique as you may have observed that previous editions were organized in collaboration with our South African partners, Clarion Events West Africa but with their exit, the organization transferred the sole right for management of the co-located Expo to the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria and Raw Materials Research and Development Council respectively. Owing to the significant impact of the Expo on the manufacturing sector and the economy at large, MAN and RMRDC deemed it appropriate to build on the success so far, hence this continued collaboration. “Through this annual event which provides a common ground for large manufacturing organizations and SMEs to explore new production process that will increase their production output, MAN has taken the challenge of leading the manufacturing sector to play a vital role in the nation’s vision of becoming one of the leading industrialized economies in Africa.” “The NIRAM Expo is aimed at creating a platform where stakeholders in the raw materials supply chain will come together to synergize, display and trade in available resources and raw materials with the users of these products. With this in mind, we intend to close the information gaps and encourage local sourcing of available raw materials by manufacturing industries which is in line Government backward integration programme. The president said that the theme of the 2020 EXPO is “The Fourth Industrial Revolution and the Nigerian Manufacturing sector”.  He pointed out that the theme is informed by the observed global trends and current development experienced in some developing nations, which have used industrialization as a growth tool to drive and transform their economy as well as improve their standards of living. Notable experiences from the East Asian Tigers-Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, China, India, and Vietnam, have illustrated the transformative nature of industrialization. “Secondly, the emergence of new technology, changing markets and the upcoming African free trade market calls for stakeholders collaboration to anticipate and response appropriately to the evolving manufacturing eco-system which is been ushered in the rapid adoption of these new and innovative technology. These new technologies which are largely driven by digital revolution such as robotics, cloud computing, big data, artificial intelligence, additive manufacturing are influencing manufacturing input and output, he added. Engr Ahmed noted that “Ahead of the implementation of the AfCFTA which will open our manufacturing sector to a much larger market, Nigeria manufacturers have to adopt the use of new technology to compete favourably with other nations that will be participating in the free trade market. He said “one critical challenge before us is inadequate energy supply for industrial use. He added that as manufacturers we cannot achieve competiveness with the current state of our electricity supply. Therefore, it is thus, expedient that governments scale-up its plan for the energy sector to reduce cost, improve processes, maximise value addition and generate employment. There is also the need to increase skills and labour productivity and encourage more women into the manufacturing field in this regard. The nation’s current energy projection and currently generated supply is below the expected level required to drive an industrialized economy.  For manufacturers, MAN Boss said studies consistently confirm that energy is the single most important constraint to productivity and competitiveness of the sector in Nigeria. The impact is felt across micro, small and medium as well as large manufacturers, he stressed. “Your Excellency, beyond manufacturing, all industrial and commercial businesses in the country also suffer from energy inadequacy and inefficiency. It is for this reason that investors in the economy will continue to urge for sustained effort to bring about significant improvement in the quantum, quality and consistent supply of electricity. He therefore pointed out that the vision of industrialized Nigeria would remain an illusion until we resolve the electric power challenge in our economy.  “I am confident that if provided a conducive operating environment, manufacturers in Nigeria given their track record of resilience and resourcefulness will rise to meet the challenges. The times ahead in the free continental market will also come new challenges such as harmonization of trade facilitation practices. These developments should bring government and businesses together as joint managers of the economy with the private sector truly at the steering wheel. Honourable Ministers, MAN President said, in going forward, Nigeria at this point in our economic development needs to establish synergy between our trade and industrial policies. It will be a great legacy if this is achieved during your tenure because industry and trade are under your portfolio. In addition, it will also be great if your tenure births a new Industrial Policy for the country, he added. In concluding, MAN and RMRDC remain grateful and committed to partners many institutions and organizations that will elicit a remarkable change and improvement in our operations.