The Association of Nigeria Licenced Customs Agents (ANLCA) has advised Controller General of Nigeria Customs Service, Col Hameed Ali, to reverse his recent directive banning the use of barges for container movements following allegation of diversion. ANLCA President, Iju Tony Nwabunike who described the directive as a surprise and inimical to trade facilitation, also advised Ali to meet with other CEOs like Managing Directors of National Inland Waterways Authority, Nigerian Ports Authority and Executive Secretary of Nigeria Shippers Council to address challenges associated with cargo movement. He also urged Ali to visit Lagos, where the barge operation takes place to meet with relevant stakeholders as another way of addressing the challenge. “It came to us as a surprise when we heard of the unpalatable news that the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali has issued a circular banning the use of barges to evacuate containers to and from our seaports with immediate effect. “More surprising is the fact that the Customs CG preaches trade facilitation and Ease of Doing business, should not be the one taking hasty decisions that will not only aggravate the current suffering of stakeholders, but also impede on efforts of other government agencies like the NPA, NIWA etc in finding a lasting solution to easy movement of goods through the waterways. And to save our roads which are already in terrible deplorable state. “We in the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) are strongly opposed to this position and called on the Customs boss to address the matter through consultations and dialogue with all stakeholders in the industry. “We in ANLCA, however suggests the following steps to be taken by the Customs CG to address the situation: 1. That the Customs CG should visit Lagos ports to see things for himself. “On our part, a high powered team from ANLCA will visit the Zonal Coordinator of Zone, ‘A’ of the NCS to register our protest and displeasure on this wicked policy. “Also, the ANLCA leadership will dispatch a letter to the Customs CG latest by tomorrow (Monday) to seek the reversal of this trade frustrating policy. “We want to also assure the Customs leadership that ANLCA as a group of Customs Brokers will do everything possible to see to friendly trade policies that will attract investors to our ports” Nwabunike said in the statement. Movement of cargoes in barges was necessitated by poor ports access roads in Lagos and ongoing construction which has hindered vehicular movements in Lagos