In commemoration of the 2020 International Women’s Day, FMDQ joined 75 other exchanges across the world to “Ring the Bell for Gender Equality”. This held yesterday at our offices, Exchange Place, Lagos. Mr.  Bola Onadele. Koko, Chief Executive Officer, FMDQ Group flanked by Ms. Kaodi Ugoji, Group Chief Operating Officer, FMDQ Group on the left; Mr. Ayodele Onawunmi, Ag. Managing Director, FMDQ Clear Limited on the far left and Ms. Tumi Sekoni, Managing Director, FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited on the right during the FMDQ “Ring the Bell for Gender Equality” Ceremony.  ABOUT FMDQ: FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited (“FMDQ Exchange” or “the Exchange”) was registered by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Nigeria (SEC), as an OTC Market (2012), and subsequently, as a Securities Exchange (2019), with a mandate to: (i) organise and deepen the Nigerian financial markets and (ii) create an efficient platform for the registration, listing, quotation, trading and reporting of securities and financial products. FMDQ Exchange provides a range of business services in fulfilment of its market development, organiser and governance mandates, whilst adding value to its diverse stakeholder groups. These services include Registrations, Listings & Quotations, Data & Information, Market Connectivity, Market Governance & Regulation, amongst many others. With an average annual market turnover of circa $643 billion over the last six (6) years, FMDQ Exchange is the largest Exchange in Nigeria. The Exchange has championed the introduction of several innovative market development initiatives, driven by its strategic mandate, to transform the Nigerian financial markets.  FMDQ Holdings PLC (FMDQ Group or FMDQ), is Africa’s first vertically integrated financial market infrastructure (FMI) group, strategically positioned to provide seamless execution, clearing and settlement of financial market transactions, as well as data and information services, across the debt capital, foreign exchange, derivatives and equity markets, through its wholly owned subsidiaries – FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited, FMDQ Clear Limited, FMDQ Depository Limited, FMDQ Private Markets Limited and iQx Consult Limited – towards transforming the Nigerian financial markets through its “GOLD” (Global Competitiveness, Operational Excellence, Liquidity and Diversity) Agenda.  As an integrated FMI group, FMDQ operates the largest Exchange in Nigeria, with an average annual market turnover of circa $643 billion over the last six (6) years, as well as the only Central Clearing House, and one of the Depositories in the country.