Capt. Musa Shuaibu Nuhu on Monday, March 16, 2020 has formally taken over as the substantive Director General/Chief Executive Officer (DG/CEO) of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA).The brief handover ceremony which was superintended by the Acting Director General, Capt. Sidi Abdullahi was held at the Conference Room, Aviation House, Ikeja. He resumed as the 7th Director General of the Authority following his appointment on 23rd October, 2019 and eventual confirmation by the Senate. While handing over, Capt Sidi Abdullahi urged staff to support the new DG in his drive to take the Authority to greater heights. In his response, the DG thanked the Federal Government for the confidence reposed in him, promising to work with the staff in realizing the Organisation mandate. Capt. Musa solicited new ideas and suggestions from staff aimed at making things work seamlessly. He urged staff to brace up for challenges ahead arising from COVID-19 pandemic. Top Management staff in attendance are Capt. Sidi Abdullahi, Director of Operations &Training; Capt Dele Sasegbon, Director of General Aviation; Alhaji Adamu Abdullahi, Director of Consumer Protection; Engr. Ita Awak, Director of Air Worthiness Standards; Engr. Tayyib Odunowo, Director of Aerodrome & Airspace Standards and Hajia Bilikisu Adamu Sani, Director of Finance & Accounts. Others include Group Capt. Edem Oyo-Ita (Rtd.), Director of Air Transport Regulation; Mr. Abbas Sanusi, Director of Human Resources and Administration represented by Anthony Ayasal, General Manager, Human Resources, Mr. Adekola Johnson, General Manager, Servicom; Mr. Sam Adurogboye, General Manager, Public Relations; Barr. Emmanuel Chukwuma, Legal Adviser; Barr. Olu Akinde, Company Secretary; Dr. Wilfred Haggai, General Manager, Aero Medical Standards; Mr; Alhaji Sani Mahmud , General Manager, Audit; Engr. Yakubu Mahmud, Technical Assistant to the DG and Mr. Ayeteni, Head, Information & Communication Technology. Also in attendance was immediate successor to the Director General as   Nigeria’s representative on the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Council, Engr. Ben Tukur.  The Captioned Photo: The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Director General/Chief Executive Officer (DG/CEO), Capt. Musa Shuaibu Nuhu