CRC have further de-risked lending and made lending in the dark a thing of the past in Nigeria  The Managing Director/CEO, CRC Credit Bureau, Tunde Popoola, at 2020 BI-Monthly Forum of The Finance Correspondents Association of Nigeria (FICAN) said CRC has improved access to credit for consumers and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). When it commenced live operations in 2009, it had only six commercial banks which invariably successfully submitted credit records. L-R Chairman FICAN, Obina Chima, MD CRC Credit Bureau, Ahmed Tunde Popoola, FICAN Vice Chairman, Madam Iyabo and CRC, Madam Peggy Chukwuma-Nwosu. The 2020 BI-Monthly Forum of The Finance Correspondents Association of Nigeria (FICAN) with the theme: “Stimulating Economic Growth Through Improved Access To Credit” held in Lagos  Mr Popoola Further said that Today, CRC has about 1500 institutions with over 33 million credit records successfully processed. In effect, over 1500corporate entities use the services of the company, cutting across all types of financial institutions, insurance companies, telecommunications (telcos), electricity distribution (discos), cooperative societies, pharmaceuticals, retailers, conglomerates, travel and hospitality businesses etc. CRC Credit Bureau is the largest credit reporting agency in Nigeria, responsible for over 95percent of the nation’s recorded credit data.  According CRC managing director, in its first month of live operations in June 2009, only 49 credit reports were sold to two banks. Today, millions of searches are conducted on the platform of the company through various media such as web, direct connection via API and batch processing.  He stated that CRC set out to empower, enable and strengthen the capacity of lenders and creditors. CRC has developed a variety of products and services to help lenders decide with trust and confidence. The value proposition to our customers include assisting them in identifying credible customers to grant loans or sell to on credit, manage existing credit facilities or receivables, and manage collections and bad debts. The company which took off with only credit information report (CIR) to help profile potential borrowers and debtors has developed over thirteen products including Credit Information Report, Credit scores, Portfolio  Monitoring Report, Prospecta, self-enquiry, Dud Cheque Verification Platform. Through the API devices and credit scoring solutions, institutions are connected to CRC making lending decisions possible within seconds and for several customers. This phenomenon has democratized access to credit, taken away emotions from lending decisions and making it possible to grant credits in few seconds all the year round. Furthermore, it has become possible to trace and track old customers with bad or abandoned facilities thereby assisting to address the challenges of adverse and haphazard selection, he added.  “To deliver quality services to all stakeholders and indeed Nigeria as a country, CRC leverages and partners with the best solution providers in the world, the Dun & Bradstreet (DnB), a global risk management solution company with over two hundred years’ experience in the provision of data management and analytics while our credit scoring solution technology is powered by Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO), the pioneer and global leader in credit scoring solutions in the world.  “CRC is in partnership with Nova Credit, to enable Nigerian emigrants to the United States, Canada and some other advanced countries to access their data in CRC repository in Nigeria. With the partnership, these emigrants can use their international credit history to apply credit products. The partnership enables creditworthy Nigerian newcomers to gain access to credit opportunity previously unavailable to them because of the lack of credit history in the US and Canada, etc. The whole idea is to assist more than 16000 Nigerians who move to the US and Canada each year to pursue new opportunities to settle down faster and have access to credit to continue their lives and lifestyles. The new emigrants often encounter a common challenge of lack of access to credit when they reach the US and Canada which is fundamental to their basic existence and livelihood, from getting an apartment lease to obtaining a cell phone plan or securing student loan.  “CRC prides itself with the impact it had made on the lending space in Nigeria. We have changed the way lending is done. We have democratized access to credit. In his words: We have further de-risked lending and made lending in the dark a thing of the past in Nigeria. Virtually all commercial banks have developed protocols and products for retail and consumer loans. Most of them have also established special desks, units and departments for SMEs lending. Quality data and information that enable banks lend through software applications to thousands of people daily at any time of the day are provided through automation process while human interference is reduced to the barest minimum. The services which are rendered with the highest level of credibility engendered by trust have enabled customer profiling, loan application assessment, portfolio management and Know Your Customer services (KYC) .  In effect, Mr Popoola pointed out that CRC has assisted in generating growth in loans both to consumers and commercial entities and stimulated the emergence of new loan products and services. It has also improved the quality of credit offered and loan processing through the introduction of customer profiling and loan monitoring. It has impacted positively the financial environment in Nigeria by making substantial contributions to access to credit and the change in the business models of lending.  He reiterated that CRC is a pacesetter and the leader in the industry. While it has highest number of customers and the largest database, it is the most visible and most vibrant and innovative brand. Its leadership position in the industry has been strengthened by a number of awards and recognitions.  “All these recognitions help us affirm that we are contributing to the overall growth of the Nigeria economy by driving access to finance and financial inclusion and by setting standards for informed decision making by the lender and borrower.  