According to Source, Shareholders of the company are scheduled to meet next week to consider and approve resolutions empowering the board of the company to raise new capital up to N40 billion. While the company has not decided the other details of the new capital raising, it has however indicated that the additional capital could be raised through a public offering, rights issue or other methods as the board may deem fit. Besides, the company may issue debt or equity through issuance of shares, convertible or non-convertible securities, loan notes, bonds and any other instruments. The source also disclosed the shareholders are expected to empower the board to apply any outstanding convertible loan, shareholder loan or loan facility due to any person from the company towards the payment for any shares subscribed for by such person under the capital raise. According to the resolutions, where the directors deem fit, the rights issue or any other capital raise may be underwritten on such terms and conditions as the directors may approve while in the event that the company raises the additional capital by way of a rights issue, any shares not taken up by the existing shareholders within the stipulated period, will be determined and offered to interested shareholders of the company. Where the rights issue is underwritten, the shareholders will also waive their pre-emptive rights to enable the underwriter to take up any unsubscribed shares. In order to create headroom for the new capital raising, shareholders are also expected to increase the authorised share capital of the company from N1 billion of 2.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to N1.5 billion of 3.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each by the creation of additional 1.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. The Memorandum of Association of the company will subsequently be amended to reflect the new authorised share capital of N1.5 billion, divided into three billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. Notore had grown its top-line by 89.4 per cent to N8.18 billion in the first three months of its current business year as the agro-allied company begun to reap benefits of its production capacity development. Key extract of the three-month report for the period ended December 31, 2019 showed that turnover rose to N8.18 billion in 2019 as against N4.32 billion recorded in comparable period of 2018. Notore’s 12-month business year runs from October to September. The top-line performance was due to improvement in plant’s reliability, which led to an increase in urea production volumes by 83 per cent from 44,076 metric tonnes in December 2018 to 80,777 metric tonnes in December 2019. The report showed that Notore’s operating profit declined by 39 per cent from N3.34 billion to N2.04 billion. This was due to a drop in other income by 78 per cent. The company however recorded a loss of N1.39 billion in December 2019 with a net finance cost of N3.43 billion. The company expressed optimism that opportunities for better performance are high as the domestic fertiliser market is yet to reach its full potential. According to the company, the fertiliser market in Nigeria during the period under review was robust as Notore sold all the urea that it produced during the period in both domestic and international fertilizser market. It added that the demand for urea and compound fertiliser, such as NPK, from the West African markets and neighbouring countries bordering the northern part of the country is also quite significant. According to the company, constant natural gas, main feedstock for producing urea fertiliser supply has been one of its key strengths, as it is in line to achieve its 1,500 MTD name-plate production capacity following successful draw down of the Turn-Around Maintenance (TAM) facility, which will be utilised to increase the plant’s reliability. The company stated that it has commenced the ordering of critical components of the items under the TAM scope in order to keep with the TAM schedule. On the outlook for the 2020 financial year, the company said it expects to exceed its 2019 financial year urea production figures and is also working on various financial initiatives to reduce its finance cost. The Group’s current business comprises fertilizer production, supply and trading of fertilizer, and power. The Group’s primary fertilizer products are granular Urea and Ammonia. The Group operates from its Onne Complex in the heart of the Niger Delta, Africa’s most prolific oil and gas producing region. The Onne Complex is located within the Onne Oil and Gas Free Zone, which provides significant tax benefits and advanced logistics solutions for international distribution of products. The Onne Complex comprises of approximately 560 hectares of land owned by the Group with a 2km of waterfront including the Notore Port and a dedicated jetty (with a capacity to accommodate vessels with a maximum volume of between 25,000 MT and 35,000 MT) owned by the Group. The Notore Port gives the Group easy access to the Atlantic Ocean for easy import of raw materials and export of the Group’s products. The Group produces Urea and Ammonia and owns a Urea producing plant in Onne, Rivers State with a current annual design production capacity of approximately 500,000 MTPA of Urea and 330,000 MTPA of Ammonia. The Group also has an installed 2,000 MTD NPK blending plant. The Group currently supplies and sells its fertilizer products in all thirty-six (36) States and Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. The Group trades and exports its manufactured fertilizer products to West Africa, South Africa, South America, and Europe