·      Condoles with Achimugu’s Family In compliance with the Federal Government’s directive on the COVID -19, the Management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has directed all office-based staff below Management cadre across all its formations to work remotely from home with effect from today.  A release today in Abuja by the corporation’s Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Dr. Kennie Obateru, said the directive which was conveyed to the NNPC workforce via a message  signed by the National Oil Company’s Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari,  directed all NNPC Strategic Business Units to activate their business continuity plans immediately to ensure minimal disruption to operations while protecting staff from exposure to the COVID-19. The NNPC leadership, since the outbreak of the Coronavirus disease, has been providing daily enlightenment to staff on how to keep themselves and their families safe from infection. Among others, it has ensured a compulsory temperature check on all staff and visitors, frequent handwash and the use of hand-sanitizer at points of entry into the Towers and all other locations of the corporation and the maintenance of social distancing at all times. Meanwhile, the NNPC has condoled with the family of Engineer Suleiman Achimugu who passed on in the early hours of Monday after a bout with COVID-19. The corporation disclosed that the deceased who was Managing Director of the then Pipelines and Products Marketing Company (PPMC), a Downstream subsidiary of NNPC, went into self-isolation upon return from the United Kingdom on 10th March, 2020. Consequent upon reporting palpable symptoms of Coronavirus disease, the NNPC Medical Services team collaborated with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Public Health Department to ensure that all laid down protocol were followed in handling the case of Engr. Achimugu who retired on 24th July 2009 as Group General Manager, Renewable Energy Division (RED) of NNPC. The corporation in the release stated that its thought and prayers were with the entire members of the Achimugu family at this time.