Strong PBT growth driven by efficiency and disciplined execution of our strategy.  Union Bank, one of Nigeria’s longest standing and most respected financial institutions, announces its audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2019 which reflect strong growth in the Bank’s underlying business operations and enhanced profitability. The performance also demonstrates the impact of some of the key operational and cost saving initiatives that have been implemented to accelerate growth and profitability.  Bank Financial Highlights: Key Operational Highlights:  Profitability  The programme saved the Bank N2.4bn in recurring expenses helping drive overall cost down notwithstanding double-digit inflation and an increase in nondiscretionary cost.  This program continues in 2020:    In addition, we partnered with Leading Ladies Africa to run the Enterprise and Leadership Programme (ELP) for 40 women entrepreneurs and continued our support of the globally recognized Girls Coding Summer Camp for young girls organised by Pearls Africa. About 80 girls learnt coding and other ICT skills through the programme. Union Bank remains committed to supporting women through these initiatives and our αlpher proposition which is focused on supporting women-owned and led businesses.  Capital & Funding N30bn Bond Issuance: Union Bank raised the largest 10-year bond ever issued by a corporate institution in Nigeria demonstrating the strong confidence in the local capital market for the bank. The N30bn Tier 2 bond was fully subscribed from the Nigerian Capital Market.  $200m OPIC funding: Union Bank working in partnership with Atlas Mara, secured $200 million in funding from the US Development Finance Corporation (DFC) previously called OPIC, for investments over the next ten years in digitization, on-lending to SMEs and funding for αlpher, our women banking proposition. This is one of the largest investments made by the DFC in a financial institution in Nigeria and sub Saharan Africa to date.  Commenting on the results, Emeka Emuwa, CEO said: “The Bank’s strong overall performance has paved the way for a critical milestone. With the approval of the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Board of Directors will recommend a dividend payment to shareholders for the first time in over a decade.  Returning value to our shareholders has been at the core of Union Bank’s transformation and continuous drive to become a leading financial institution in Nigeria.  The Bank delivered a solid set of results for full year (FY) 2019, recording growth across the major income lines.  The top-line revenue at ₦159.9bn is up 14% from ₦140bn in 2018. Profit Before Tax (PBT) increased by 33% from ₦18.6bn in 2018 to ₦24.7bn for the year. Core to our earnings has been the conscientious growth of our loan book. The Bank booked ₦98bn in new loan assets in the course of the year reflecting a 20% growth to close at ₦595.3bn in Gross Loans.  As a result of our larger loan book and intensified recovery efforts, Non-Interest Income grew by 23% from ₦35.3bn to ₦43.3bn in the period with recoveries accounting for ₦8.8bn of the total amount.  Consistent with our vision to be Nigeria’s ‘most reliable and trusted banking partner,’ we are optimizing our business model to focus solely on Nigeria where we continue to invest and thrive.  Consequently, we have made the strategic decision to divest of our UK subsidiary, Union Bank UK which will enable us focus on the distinct long-term opportunities in the Nigerian market. The divestment is expected to conclude in 2020 subject to regulatory approvals in Nigeria and the UK.  In 2020, we will continue to focus on bottom-line initiatives that will build on our success in 2019. We are promoting synergy across our businesses and functions to ensure alignment with and on our strategic objectives.  Speaking also on the FY 2019 numbers, Chief Financial Officer, Joe Mbulu said: “Our Group numbers reflect the classification of our UK subsidiary as a discontinued operation in line with IFRS 5. This is reflected in both 2018 and 2019 numbers.  We are proud of the top-line and bottom-line numbers the Bank delivered in 2019, owing largely to operational efficiencies and a laser focus on key deliverables. Through our LEAP initiative, our focus on discretionary cost discipline led to a reduction of N2.4 billion on related cost lines driving overall expenses down.  Consequently, our Cost-Income Ratio declined to 74.1% from 79.2% in 2018. Our Total Customer Deposits grew by 5% to ₦886.3bn from ₦844.4bn as at December 2018 with low-cost deposits up by 7.7% and now accounting for 74% of total customer deposits compared to 71% in 2018.  With our sustained and aggressive focus on recoveries to improve asset quality, we have brought the Bank’s NPL ratio down to 5.8% from 7.8% as at December 2018, in line with our 2019 guidance. Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) remains well above the regulatory threshold at 19.7%. We will leverage our improved risk asset and capital base as we continue to rebuild our loan portfolio which we expect to be a significant driver of growth in 2020.” 