Our hearts go out to everyone impacted by COVID-19— those diagnosed with the virus, their family and friends, and all those whose jobs, education, and way of life have been affected. The situation unfolding around the world is unlike anything we’ve seen in our lifetimes and is a reminder that we’re all more connected than we’ve ever been. To get through this we need each other – we need patience, understanding, compassion, and to do the right thing for each other. With that in mind, we wanted to reach out and share what MTN is doing in response. We have been closely monitoring the situation and believe it is crucial that companies do two things – help contain the escalating outbreak and safeguard operations so that economies keep moving. For MTN in particular, we understand the vital role our network and services play in supporting people, organizations and institutions nationwide. Mindful of our responsibility – to keep Nigeria and Nigerians connected to the people they love and the information and technology they need, we have adjusted our internal policies and made a few changes to how we serve our customers. In the past month, we have implemented precautionary measures in our facilities nationwide, suspended all non-critical business meetings, travel and events and activated travel-related self-isolation protocols.  We have also complemented the government’s sensitization drive, introduced rigorous cleaning measures and equipped team members with additional sanitation and safety products. From Monday 23 March 2020, most of our teams will begin working from home. Please be assured that our operations will continue running at full scale with essential staff working limited hours on-site. As part of our response plan, in the coming days, we will introduce our Y’ello care package – several new measures as part of a concerted effort to support our customers. These include further amplifying governments sensitization efforts – using more channels to deliver health and safety information, and suspending fees for all money transfers using our Momo Agent network. We also plan to announce the temporary closure of some of our stores. Those that remain open will operate reduced hours and maintain strict hygiene and social distancing measures. To locate an open store in your area, please visit our website at http://www.mtnonline.com/stores, alternatively go to https://www.mtnonline.com/contact-us/ to contact us for support 24 hours a day via our virtual channels. These measures are designed to enable us continue providing services that ensure Nigerians can stay connected while supporting national efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19.  Given how rapidly the outbreak is evolving, we expect, and are prepared, to adjust our approach.  We understand that our best hope is to work together and are committed to taking additional constructive steps to support the public during this challenging time.  To this end, MTN continues to engage and is actively pursuing new ways to leverage our core expertise, technology and infrastructure to support government’s efforts to keep citizens safe.