L-R Chairman FICAN, Obina Chima, MD CRC Credit Bureau, Ahmed Tunde Popoola, FICAN Vice Chairman, Madam Iyabo and CRC, Madam Peggy Chukwuma-Nwosu. Mr Popoola, noted that the availability and ease of access to credit is represented by the level of credit penetration adding that this is measured by the ratio of total credit to the private sector to the Gross Domestic Products (GDP) .The rate of low credit penetration in Nigeria is lack of unique identify for every inhabitant, he added. “The country lack unique identification number, which may not be a card, is necessary to facilitate credit advances to individuals and businesses in the country. According to him the country has multiple forms of government issued identifiers for individuals which are including National ID, BVN, Driver’s license, Voters Card and International Passport sometimes NEPA or Utility  Bills etc. He stressed that in most countries with successful Credit Bureau infrastructure, there is always on single means of identification. He cited many countries with unique or single identification numbers adding that Nigeria also needs to embrace a unique identifier. “Credit enhances productivity leading to higher GDP and quality of life of the people, it helps to determine the vibrancy of the economy.” Popoola said. CRC Boss underscored the importance of Credit Bureaus to growth of the economy noting that the penetration in Nigeria is very low compared to its peer countries as only 14 adult Nigerians out of 100 had access to credit in 2019. “Credit facility in Nigeria goes to sectors with relatively low contributon to the GDP, oil and gas with less than 10℅ enjoys more credit compared to agriculture that contributes the most.” The CRC Bureau boss said. He pointed out that the operation of Credit Bureaus in the country has helped reduce the cost of credit as well as the size of non performing loans from about 32.8℅ in 2009 to 9.3℅ in 2019. He also said unique identifier will further enhance the efficiency of blockchain and machine learning technology and their deployments to ease access to credit. Popoola said 1500 institutions in Nigeria have registered for the services of CRC Credit Bureau with about 33million credit records processed so far. He urged the judicial system to engender confidence and boost a credit economy with prompt resolutions of cases, that is prompt dealings and disposal of commercial cases, especially those between lenders and borrowers  help the system. CRC Credit Bureau is the Largest credit reporting agency in Nigeria.