Over the last few days we (Airtel Network) have all been inundated with what is happening around the world with COVID-19. In a statement endorsed by Segun Ogunsanya, Managing Director & CEO, Airtel Networks Limited which was sent to the AmehNews saying “Although Africa was one of the last regions to be hit, there is still a lot we don’t know and the uncertainty weighs in on all of us. Our hearts go out to everyone who has been impacted by the virus either directly or indirectly, he added.  Mr Ogunsanya noted that at this point, we know that our first priority must be you and your family’s health and well-being, and we hope you stay safe and healthy. At the same time, our hearts go out to those at the front line: medical staff and caregivers who put themselves at risk to do all it takes to serve others.  “In much the same way, we at Airtel too provide an essential service – keeping our customers and the country connected. Therefore, we are doing everything we can to keep our employees and partners safe. This is so that they can work towards keeping you, your businesses and families connected. We know there is a great responsibility on us as connectivity providers, to do what it takes to make sure everything works at this time of stress. “Towards that end, I wish to share some of the steps we are taking and what these mean for you. 1) PRODUCTS – As work from home becomes commonplace, staying in touch and businesses shouldn’t come to a standstill. The Airtel 4G Mifi and Routers connect up to 32 devices, connecting people to their clients, associates, friends and loved ones. 2) BUNDLES – To ease the pain of quarantine, we’ve introduced attractive data bundles on video calls, so you can conduct meetings and conferences remotely. Also double the data every time you top-up a 4G connection. 3) AIRTEL TV – While you are at home you can entertain yourself with the Airtel TV App. It brings a world of entertainment straight to your phone and is free for all Airtel users with no subscription fees. 4) MY AIRTEL APP – Now, you no longer have to step out to recharge or top-up your phone. You can do so remotely and at your convenience using the self-care app (My Airtel) or any bank app. The Airtel Networks Limited boss said we will continue to assess the situation and take appropriate action so that you have no disruptions and can stay connected with your loved ones.