The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, has said that the last one year has been most productive of this administration. He said he worked closely with Ministers with respect to ensuring effective coordination of the formulation and implementation of policies, programmes and projects of the Federal Government. Speaking at the First Year Ministerial Performance Review Retreat in Abuja, Mustapha said his office has received and scheduled most of the ministers memoranda (inclusive of policies, project contracts and presentation of Ministerial Performance review reports), for the consideration of Federal Executive Council, FEC. He noted that as of September 2, 2020, the number of memoranda, briefs and notes processed by the Cabinet Affairs Office stood at 282, while FEC had considered/approved 191 Memorandum, Briefs/Notes.
According to Mustapha, it is worthy to note that out of the 191 Memorandum, Briefs and Notes, 50 were policy related with 128 as project contracts and 13 Council Notes/Briefs. “We have also provided technical support in form of training to all ministries towards improving their capacity in the area of cabinet documentation and processing. While acknowledging that we have been unable to effectively track and monitor FEC approved policies, projects and programmes as earlier envisaged, due to the lock-down, arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, I assure you that the process will be accelerated by our Delivery Unit in the coming months.
“In preparation for this Retreat, a Ministerial Self-Assessment template was completed by all ministries. This had helped in facilitating the analysis of the Performance of Ministerial Mandates. “I am pleased to note that the Self-Assessment Reports have been validated by the OSGF and its Technical Partners through engagements with the ministers. The report of the analysis and synthetisation of the assessment and the review of Ministerial Performance reports will be presented during the technical session of the retreat.
“The technical sessions for this retreat have been designed to focus on the following thematic areas: i) Overview of Economic Sustainability Plan and Imperatives for Success, ii) Experience sharing on Driving Growth in a crisis- Lessons Learnt, Delivery etc, iii) First Year Scorecard and Summary of Ministerial/MDA Performance – Independent Assessment, iv) Reflection on Ministerial Performance v) Delivering the Presidential Legacy: A Collective Responsibility, vi) Managing Relationships between Ministers and Permanent Secretaries/CEOs of Parastatals to accelerate delivery, vii) Visioning the Future – Review of Key Priorities, Targets and Presidential Legacy (next 2 years) – Economy, Infrastructure, Fighting Corruption and Security. vii) Delivering Government Agenda: The Imperative of Revenue Mobilisation & Enhancement, and ix) Panel session on Collaborating to Deliver.
“There will also be Breakout sessions along the 9 priority areas to review our Ministerial Priorities, Execution requirements and Enablers, including revenue enhancements. The retreat will be rounded up with a renewed focus on Execution – Making it Happen (lessons learned, improvement plans, updated targets, etc.) and key next steps,” he said. (Realnews) 