….. Broadband because that is the key to touching the lives of every Nigerian The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive of the Nigerian Communications Commission said “our plan for the increased growth of telecom in Nigeria is clear. We will leave no stones unturned, we will not rest on oars to ensure we achieve our goals. We have our job cut out for us and we will start with broadband because that is the key to touching the lives of every Nigerian.Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) in his speech at the interactive session with media chiefs and news editors on Friday recently in Abuja said “We hope to take broadband penetration to 70 per cent to at least 90 percent of the population by 2025 in line with new target in the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NBBP), 2020-2025.  Professor reiterated that “We want to continue to protect consumers and ensure they have value for their money. We want to continue to support and fast-track the digital economy drive of the Federal Government of Nigeria and this has led to the creation of a Digital Economy Department in the Commission.  “The Commission is placing emphasis on growing the digital economy in collaboration with sister agencies under the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy (FMoCDE), he said.  “We hope to consolidate onspectrum trading to ensure maximum and efficient usage of available frequencies; continuous SIM registration audit to provide security and curtail incidences of banditry, kidnapping and armed robbery; completion and commissioning of Emergency Communications Centres (ECCs) in the remaining states to enhance security and provide relief to citizens in distress.  “We are committed to the execution of the counterpart Funding Agreements with the Licensed InfraCo to facilitate increase in fibre deployment in the country and ensure, at least one Point of Access (PoA) in each of the 774 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Nigeria to enhance digital transformation.  He said that the foregoing is by no means, the complete portfolio of our focus. According to him, as you are aware, our role is to drive major digital initiatives and policies of the government, hence, we have continued to work with government as a critical stakeholder.  “The NCC remains committed to driving the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) and the NBBP 2020-2025 for advancing the digital economy vision of the Federal Government.  “The SMP is the NCC’s visioning document for planning and defining its strategic goals and set objectives. The strategic plan has five strategic pillars, which include regulatory excellence, universal broadband, promote development of digital economy, market development; and strategic partnering.  “The SMP provides the focus for us, as a regulator of the telecoms sector, for effective and efficient utilisation of internal processes and resources towards growing the sector and satisfying external stakeholders. It provides for us the pedestal for meeting government’s expectations from the Commission with respect to delivering on its mandates of driving digital economy by advancing industry growth through strategy, professionalism, innovation and regulatory excellence in the next five years, he concluded.  The Captioned Photo: The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Garba Danbatta