The Managing Director of National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Chief Dr. George Moghalu has said it is very important for us in the Maritime Sector to have decided to set up a platform. The NIWA boss disclosed this while briefing the Press at the end of All Heads of Maritime agencies monthly meeting hosted by NIWA at the Authority’s Headquarters, Lokoja, Kogi State.  The MD in his opening address said “It is very important for us in the Maritime Sector to have decided to set up a platform we can share ideas, synergize where we can contribute our quarter in developing policies and building the Maritime Industry.  According to Moghalu, the meeting centred on issues concerning Maritime Security and Safety.  In a press statement made available by Mike Frank, a media consultant to NIWA stated that NIMASA and NIWA briefed the meeting on the efforts made so far in the area of trade, development of manpower, enforcing the protocols to reduce the carnage on Nigeria’s Waterways, and the removal of wrecks which is being addressed by all the sister agencies in the country.  According to Moghalu, the meeting set up a committee on Multi-Model approach to Cargo delivery, where they sought the support of the Nigerian Railway Corporation on Cargo movement from the ports to the dry Port, especially in Kaduna,.  It also stated that the Director General of NIMASA,Dr. Bashir Jamoh briefed the members on the deployment of a modular floating dock.  The committee also looked at the movement of Cargoes from Lagos Port to Onitsha River Port and other Ports within the Country, putting to active use of the Waterways and also other related issues were deliberated.   “This is our third meeting and is expected that this meeting will continue as we set issues that concern the maritime industry.  “We will discuss to find solutions so that we can put them to use in our various establishments and at the same time bring solutions to the government at large.”  When asked what the agency is doing on flooding sensitization, security and safety on the Waterways, he said NIWA had a department that monitors flood and gave their report which is made available to other agencies so that people could be aware and take precaution.  “NIWA has also been running radio jingles and newspaper advertorials to sensitize the general public on flood disaster. Government is conscious and making efforts on security and also taking safety measures on our Waterways so that it can have positive impact on the economy and image of the Country”  The meeting in attendance of Barrister Hassan Bello, the Executive Secretary Nigerian Shippers Council, Dr. Bashir Jamoh DG/CEO Nigerian Maritime and Administration & Safety Agency (NIMASA), Mr. Sam Nwakohu, Registrar Council for the Regulation Freight forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) and representatives of Nigeria Customs Service and Nigerian Railways Corporation. 