Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) PLC has introduced a branded ankara uniform for its frontline operations staff.Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) PLC, Executive Director, Sales and Marketing, Olaniyi Adigun; SAHCO Managing Director/CEO, Basil Agboarumi; SAHCO, Executive Director, Cargo Services and Operations, Mrs Boma Ukwunna at the launching of SAHCO’s new additional uniform recently. The introduction of the ankara patterned uniform is to showcase the Nigerian culture to the world through the company’s day to day operations.  As an indigenous company with a global soul that was an arm of the Nigerian Airways before it was acquired by SIFAX Group and now listed in the Nigerian Stock Exchange withan all Nigeriantop Executives, SAHCO has always been proud to showcase Nigerian culture to the world through quality services to clients. More so, the introduction of the Ankara uniforms coincides with the 60th Anniversary of the existence of Nigeria as a country The new uniform’s theme is a fusion of abstract shapes of orange and dark grey which is SAHCO’s brand colours all incorporated in a Nigerian themed Ankara design. These uniforms will help create more awareness about SAHCO’s brand while also promoting the Nigerian culture since the first point of contact to SAHCO as a company is usually through the front-line staff. SAHCO is the first Ground Handling company to adopt Ankara design uniform.The focus of the uniform is not to change the ones used by operations staff, but to have an additional uniform that aims at projecting the “Buy Nigeria to Grow the Naira” slogan and to promote the Nigerian cultural heritage and pride. For clarity’s sake, SAHCO is not changing the official uniform, but the company is giving operational staff a different optionfor their convenience and comfort, using our indigenous Ankara fabrics. In another development, SAHCO has produced a Contactless sanitizing station in a bid to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic to all visitors to SAHCO’s facilities.  The sanitizing station which was constructed from locally sourced materials is fitted with a speech sensor system that senses human presence after which it automatically plays Covid-19 educational information to the hearings of users.  The sanitizing machine is contactless and fitted with different compartments- running water, liquid soap, alcohol base hand sanitizer, wipes, hand dryer and waste-bin. All these are controlled with pedals so as to prevent contacts by multiple users.SAHCO staff in the new additional uniform.  Furthermore, the station is solar powered in a bid to promote green energy. It is worthy to note that this is not the first equipment that has been produced by the Engineering and Maintenance team of SAHCO, not too long ago, the team produced a fuel bowser that is used to fuel Ground Support Equipment on the ramp and they have also produced baggage carts, all from locally sourced materials. SAHCO PLC has been adjudged as a pace setter in providing Ground Handling services across West Africansubregion, this is as a result of SAHCO’scontinuous innovations, through human and technology to provide speedy, safe and efficient Ground Handling to all its clients