The INTELS Nigeria Limited has urged the shipping community to disregard the Marine notice issued by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) purportedly terminating the boats service operations of the company.
The two parties have been at a longer head over the long lease contract being carried out by INTELS Nigeria Limited on behalf of the NPA for which the latter sought to terminate over irreconcilable differences concerning revenue remittances. However, the oil service company has gone to a Federal High Court in Lagos to obtain an interim injunction which restrained the NPA from carrying out the sack. The court granted an interim injunction stopping the NPA from terminating the role of INTELS Nigeria Limited as manning agent in the Pilotage Districts of Lagos, Warri, Bonny/Port Harcourt and Calabar. The judge, Hon. Justice R.M. Aikawa, granted the interim injunction in the suit number FHC/L/CS/1058/2020 based on an application filed by INTELS Nigeria Limited and Deep Offshore Service Nigeria Limited against the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). INTELS and Deep Offhore had requested the court to restrain NPA from preventing them from performing their duties as managing agent, pending the determination of ongoing arbitration proceedings. The court order, which was issued on Friday 28th August 2020, reads: “That an order is granted restraining the respondent, its servants, agents, and/or privies from giving effect for the purported notice of expiration issued it on 5th August 2020 or taking any other step to prevent the parties from performing their duties and obligations under the agreements between the 1st applicant and respondent dated 11th February 2011 and 24th August 2018, pending the determination of the originating motion dated 12th August 2020 seeking for interim measures of protection in support of the pending arbitration between the parties therein.” The court adjourned the matter to 15th September 2020 for the originating motion on notice. Consequent upon the court order, the management of INTELS has asked the shipping community to disregard a Marine Information issued by NPA purportedly terminating its operation, as it was issued in contempt of the court.