It’s another weekend of football on DStv and GOtv. Subscribers can look forward to the best football action from the Premier League, La Liga and Serie A on SuperSport, scheduled for 25 to 28 September, 2020.  For Premier League this weekend, Liverpool and Arsenal are scheduled to meet at Anfield on the evening of Monday 28 September, at 8:15pm on SS Premier League. The Reds and the Gunners are set for an explosive encounter which will feature prolific African goal scorers such as Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang.  Liverpool will be looking for revenge against Arsenal, given that the teams’ last two meetings have both gone the way of the London side: 2-1 in a Premier League clash in mid-July and a penalty shootout triumph in the Community Shield late last month.  Other picks for Premier League this weekend are Crystal Palace vs Everton at 3pm, Brighton & Hove Albion v Manchester Unitedat 12:30pm, West Bromwich Albion v Chelsea at 5:30pm and Burnley vs Southampton at 8pm all on Saturday 26 September, live on SS Premier League.   On Sunday 27 September EPL fans will watch Sheffield United vs Leeds United at 12pm, Tottenham Hotspur vs Newcastle United at 2pm, Manchester City vsLeicester City at 4:30pm and West Ham United vsWolverhampton Wanderers at 7pm all live on SS Premier League.  The top clash for this La Liga round sees champions Real Madrid head to Estadio Benito Villamarin to face Real Betis. This will air on Saturday 26 September at 8pm on SS La Liga and SS GOtv La Liga. Los Verdiblancos have been a bogey team for the capital side in recent times, notably defeating Zinedine Zidane’s side 2-1 in their last meeting in March (prior to the season suspension) to extend their unbeaten run in the rivalry to three matches. SuperSport is the only place to get English commentary from the legendary La Liga.  Barcelona will face Villarreal at 8pm on 27 September while Sevilla will face Cadiz on Monday 18 September at 8pm both on SS La Liga and SS GOtv La Liga.  Barcelona and Cadiz are back after being given the first two match days off to have extra recuperation time from last season’s UEFA Champions League and Europa League campaigns.  More on La Liga this weekend will see Eibar meet Athletic Bilbao at 8pm on Friday 25 September. While on Saturday at 12 pm Deportivo Alaves will clash with Getafe, Valencia will also clash with Huesca at 3pm and Elche will face Real Sociedad at 5:30pm all airing live on SS La Liga and SS GOtv La Liga. Sunday 27 September SS La Liga and SS GOtv La Liga will air Osasuna vs Levante live at 11am, Athletico Madrid vs Granada at 3pm and Real Valladolid vs Celta Vigo at 5:30pm.  The headline match from Serie A for this round is the Sunday night clash of Roma and Juventus at the Stadio Olimpico in the ‘Eternal City’. This will air on SS Football and SS GOtv Select 1 at 7:45pm. Other matches on Sunday 27 September includes,Spezia vs Sassuolo at 11:30am, Napoli vs Genoa at 2pm and Crotone vs Milan at 5pm also live on SS Football and GOtv Select 1.  Elsewhere, Internazionale will have their first match of the season when they host Fiorentina at the San Siro in the late kick-off on Saturday evening at 7:45pm. Also on Saturday 26 September at 2pm, Torino will face Atalanta while at 5pm, Cagliari will face Lazio. Both Live on SS Football and SS GOtv Football. The weekend will conclude for Serie A with Bolongna vs Parma on Monday 28 September at 7:45pm live on SSFootball, SS GOtv Football and SS GOtv Select 1.  SuperSport promises the best of football this season as viewers on DStv and GOtv can see all their favourite stars from the African continent dominating in leagues across Europe.  Don’t miss the 2020-21 football season on SuperSport on DStv and GOtv.  For the full football experience, reconnect or subscribe to any of these packages; DStv Premium, Compact Plus, Compact, Confam & Yanga and GOtv Max & Jolli for selected matches. Also, visit www.dstvafrica.com and www.gotvafrica.com and download the MyDStv app or MyGOtv app from the iOS and Android store to upgrade, reconnect or select the Auto-Renewal option to stay connected to quality football entertainment without interruptions and for other self-service options. And while you’re on the move, you can stream matches on DStv Now.