Prince Adesina Adebiyi, chairman of Unique Motors, has been awarded the ECOWAS Youth Ambassador of Peace. This happened on Wednesday, September 2, 2020. However, images confirming his award spilled onto Unique Motors’s Instagram page on Friday, September 4, 2020, where Prince Adebiyi was spotted in native attire, a medal of victory slung on his neck and a framed congratulatory message from the Presidency of ECOWAS held between his hands. Adebiyi’s company, Unique Motors, is one of the top Nigerian auto dealers, thriving in the sale of luxury cars. His recognition by ECOWAS came as a result of his dedication to uplifting the economic productivity of Nigeria, both on a national and an international level. “In lieu of your great works in business and entrepreneurship contributions to the development and empowerment of young people we recognize your commendable works for humanity and as a philanthropist par excellence,” this was part of the released statement by the organizers of the award. Also, from the office of the Presidency, ECOWAS Youth Council, there were commendation for his laudable commitment to excellence, “The achievements of Prince Adesina cannot be over-emphasized, he has achieved gainfully as a vibrant entrepreneur, business magnate, and a great philanthropist.” Adesina Adebiyi established Unique Motors in September 2011 and, through tenacity and razor-sharp focus, turned the baby company into a titan in the luxury car sale business. Although his operations till date has been limited to the boundaries of Lagos but it has, over the years, expanded within the state, stretching to Lekki, FESTAC, Abule, and Omole Estate. And all the offices in those areas are fully functional. Except retailing brand new cars, Unique Motors also handles maintenance, car upgrade, and reselling of used cars. Prince Adesina’s business acumen has been praised by many. ThisDay reported: “Since coming onto the corporate scene as a young and visionary entrepreneur, Adebiyi Adesina has received several awards, most of which are in recognition of his grasp of enterprise, business character and productivity.”