SIFAX Group, a group of companies with investment in Maritime, Aviation, Oil & Gas, Haulage & Logistics, Financial Services and Hospitality, has donated some items to the Apapa General Hospital. L-R: Taiye Taiwo, Head of Accounts, Apapa General Hospital; Taiwo Ibilola Aramide, Head of Administration/Human Resources, Apapa General Hospital; Dr. Ajibola Keshinro, Chief Medical Director and Olumuyiwa Akande, Group Head, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group during the donation of 5 laptops, 6 desktop computers and 18 wall fans by SIFAX Group to the hospital recently. The items donated by SIFAX Group to the hospital include: 5 laptops, 6 desktop computers and 18 wall fans. At the official handover and presentation of the equipment to the hospital’s management, Olumuyiwa Akande, Group Head, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group, said the donation of the items is in furtherance of the company’s philosophy of supporting critical government institutions, especially in the education and health sectors as well as providing a better access to health care for Nigerians. Management of Apapa General Hospital and Olumuyiwa Akande, Group Head, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group in a picture pose during the donation of 5 laptops, 6 desktop computers and 18 wall fans by SIFAX Group to the hospital recently. He said: “SIFAX Group believes that without good health, it will be difficult for Nigerians to be productive and make giant strides in their different endeavours. Our public health institutions are important in delivering this health care and that is the reason we decided to support the Apapa General Hospital in order to improve the quality of the hospital’s service.  “It is also part of our philosophy to give back to the society in any way we can because we know that government alone cannot single handedly meet all the needs of the society. Corporate organisations and public-spirited individuals have a critical role to play in this regard.” Olumuyiwa Akande, Group Head, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group receiving an appreciation plaque from Dr. Ajibola Keshinro, Chief Medical Director, Apapa General Hospital during the donation of 5 laptops, 6 desktop computers and 18 wall fans by SIFAX Group to the hospital recently.  While responding after receiving the items, Dr. Ajibola Keshinro, Chief Medical Director, Apapa General Hospital, appreciated SIFAX Group for the kind response, adding such items will upscale the hospital’s capacity to respond well to its responsibilities.  “We are deeply grateful to SIFAX Group for the items donated. It is our wish that other organisations will also take a cue and support the good work we are doing at Apapa General Hospital. The computers will especially help our e-health project, an initiative of the Lagos State government designed to digitalise our operations”, he said.