— SAYS CHAPTERS ARE NOT FIEFDOM OF ANY GODFATHER  The Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) under able leadership of Hon. Iju Tony Nwabunike today in the business capital of Northern Nigeria recorded another feat as he inaugurated the Kano Chapter Executives of the association into office.  Nwabunike who alongside some members of his National Executive Council (NECOM) sworn -in the Chairman and other members of the Kano Chapter after a successful election  which was held at the  Badola Hotel along the Aminu Kano International Airport road, Kano State.  The election which was conducted by the ASECO Chairman, Barr. Raymond Oyinbah assisted by the Secretary, Segun Alabi saw all the seven Contestants winning the election with unopposed votes.  Nwabunike in his address while swearing- in the winners and also presenting certificates of return to all the candidates urged them to carry all their members along and work inline with the association’s constitution. “Don’t shiver, don’t fear, liaase with the National Secretary for any issue and always consult, whenever you need advice and direction. ”  On carrying out their businesses, the ANLCA president cautions them to shun smuggling and be of high compliance.  ” I urged you to keep your compliance level high and shun anything that will place you on the wrong side of the law. Keep yourselves abreast with Import and Export prohibition list. Avoid smuggling, make sincere declarations and shun any acts of concealments capable of illegalities that could lead to suspension or blocking of your licenses “.  Enumerating some of his administration’s achievement so far, Nwabunike said “upon assumption as National President of our great association, I met files containing a list of over 346 licenses that were either blocked or suspended from operations by Nigeria Customs Service.  “With dialogue and robust interactions, I got these licenses unblocked and reactivated. Today, they are all back to business. It is also important to note that non members of ANLCA also benefited from this move, because our association is truly the mother of others on our line of business”  He also said that the association has change the inherited analog working mode of the association to full digital, which its national officers are now connected to work stations to enhanced service delivery.  The ANLCA boss warned the new Kano Exco not to allow rumour mills or fake news to dictate their mood towards the association. “Don’t allow the rumour mill or fake news to dictate your mode towards your association. Feel free to clearify issues with my office always. My doors are open at all times for inquiries, clarifications, complaints and advice or suggestions from you to me”.  Nwabunike talking tough said that ANLCA Chapters does not belong to any former officer or godfather. “I want to clear a very disturbing misconception, ANLCA Chapters, Zones and National bodies are not exclusive fiefdom of any former officer or godfather. Elected officers owe allegiance to our constitution and recognised organs of hierarchy as constitutionally outlined”  He urged them to be technologically driven as their line of business must be conformed with international best practices. Nwabunike however promised that the association will soon roll out training programmes for all members, especially to fit in the e- customs regime.  The new Kano Chapter Executives are, Abdulrashid Nasir, Chairman, Alloy Ogbue, Vice Chairman, Taufig Mustapha Secretary General and Alhaji Nasiru Mohammed as Treasurer. Others are Andulrahman Hassan, Assistant Secretary, Sunday Funsho, Financial Secretary and Fabian Odia as Public Relations Officer.  The election went very peacefully as all accredited licensed members voted diligently for all the candidates of their choice without rancour. 