The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has said it is set to establish a Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics in Nigeria. This was disclosed by the Director-General of the agency, Mr Kashifu Abdullahi Inuwa when he received Mr Osman Nuri Aras, Vice-Chancellor Nile University Abuja, and, Mr Lawal Sani Taura, Vice-Chancellor, Sule Lamido University, Dutse, on separate visits to the headquarters of the agency in Abuja. In a statement released by the agency, the DG said the proposed state of the art facility will be for emerging technologies in the areas of networking, research development, information, and communication security.  “We need to look at the educational sector and focus more on skills and research that can be used to develop the economy. “People should not see education as the end but means to the end. We need to look for ways to disabuse people’s mind on paper qualification and inculcate in them those skills required for the imminent industrial revolution and also focus more on science and technology,” Inuwa said. While citing some scholarly research from Microsoft, Mr Inuwa noted that according to the research, by 2030, 800 million jobs would be lost unless people up-skill and re-skill and 149 million new jobs would be created through Artificial Intelligence and other emerging technologies. “COVID 19 is fast-forwarding the industrial revolution, it has become imperative to increase our level of preparedness and develop capacity in emerging technology. Embedding relevant skills will better prepare the workforce to actively participate in the fourth industrial revolution.” In his remarks, Mr Osman Nuri Aras of Nile University said his institution is prepared to work with NITDA to ensure it produces students that are future proof as it has a speciality in machine learning, where 85 per cent of its MSc and PhD computer science students have their specialities in machinery and Artificial Intelligence. Also, in his remarks, Mr Lawal Sani Taura of Sule Lamidi University noted the importance of the partnership between NITDA and the Jigawa state government on digital transformation and smart initiatives. He, therefore, commended the agency for its interventions in capacity building programmes, especially on information and communication technology.