Here’s your ultimate guide to the best local shows this weekend on GOtv Max. Africa Magic and ROK GH will be serving some of the best series and movies that you can enjoy with your whole family, plus the LIVE Sunday finale show on Big Brother Naija season 5!   Caught Up airs on Friday, 25th September at 6pm on ROK GH (18). A couple’s dark secret must come to light as a mysterious woman wouldn’t rest until it’s revealed. Who is she and how does she know?  The Sociopath airs on Friday, 25th September at 7pm on AM Yoruba (channel 5). A geeky brilliant young lady thinks and believes she is in love with a widower to the extent things begin to get sour and dark.  Black Market airs on Saturday, 26th September at 7pm on AM Epic (channel 9). Four members in a community and church swear never to see anyone progress in their area.  The Message airs on Saturday, 26th September at 7pm on AM Yoruba (channel 5). Love, betrayal and regrets permeate the tale of two lovers who had to go their different ways. Fate will eventually bring them together.  Manure Umuasa airs on Saturday, 26th September at 8:20pm on AM Igbo (channel 11). A man is considered by all in the community as a ‘never do well’ until they discover that he has been badly trained by his mother.  The BBNaija Lockdown Finale is finally here!! Viewers get to witness which of the top 5 housemates; Dorothy, Nengi, Laycon, Neo and vee, will emerge as the winner of this Lockdown season. Will your favourite walk away with N85 Million worth of prizes? Tune in on channel 29 this Sunday, 27th September at 7pm to find out.  Also, don’t forget to vote for your winner. Voting closes 10pm on Friday, 25th September. Active GOtv Max subscribers get a whopping 350 votes!  Dan Barau airs on Monday, 28th September at 4:40pm on AM Hausa (channel 4). This movie centers around a young man who harasses young ladies and causes problems for his struggling father. Now he is about to bite more that he can chew.  Halita S2 Finale airs on Monday, 28th September at 7:30pm on AM Family (channel 2). How does this epic battle of love and faith end? Tune in to find out.  Reconnect now on the GOtv Max package to have access to exclusive content on channels such as SuperSport SS La Liga, BET, M-Net Movie 4, Discovery ID, Cartoon Network and so much more for the price of N3,600! You can make use of the MyGOtv app from the comfort of your homes to upgrade or reconnect.  Follow GOtv on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook to find out more entertaining movies and TV series in September. Also, visit www.gotvafrica.com, or download MyGOtv app which is available to iOS and Android users to upgrade, reconnect or select the Auto-Renewal option to stay connected to quality entertainment without interruptions and for other self-service options and join in on the excitement.  