….. Association has donated about N8 billion in cash and N300 million worth of palliatives—} Manufacturers under the auspices of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has called on federal government to direct all Regulatory Agencies, especially Standards Organizations of Nigeria (SON) and National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration & Control (NAFDAC) to reduce their respective administrative charges (Pre-COVID-19 rates) payable by manufacturing concerns by 50%.  MAN President, Mansur Ahmed at the MAN 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM) welcomes you to the MAN 48th AGM today saying This year marks a turning point, not only in the economy, but also in the day to day activities of our lives. As you already know, countries, including Nigeria, are experiencing the adverse effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is negatively impacting the world economy and the way we do things.   Also direct the Nigeria Customs Service, the Nigerian Ports Authority and other related agencies of Government to treat all requests from Manufacturers expeditiously with great sense of responsibility and understanding of the prevailing situation. As a matter of urgency, direct that cargoes containing manufacturing raw materials are cleared swiftly and ensure compliance with additional free days from the terminal and shipping lines to clear the containers to avoid demurrages as already announced. Grant manufacturers waivers from all demurrages payable between February and July 2020, especially those occasioned by the lockdown directives of Government and others associated with COVID-19 pandemic.  The MAN 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM) was held at MAN HOUSE on Thursday September 10, 2020 in Lagos   MAN President in response to questions from press disclosed that the Association has donated about N8 billion in cash and N300 million worth of palliatives to both federal and states governments during the COVID-19 pandemic in the country.  Ahmed said despite members of the association’s conditions, heeded the calls to lend support to the federal government when it was most needed by providing palliatives as a way of cushioning the hardship being experienced by Nigerians and also to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the country. The MAN president explained further that the pandemic was a turning point, not only in the economy, but also in the day to day activities of the people. He said many countries, including Nigeria, experienced adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which negatively impacted the world economy and the way people do things.   Ahmed added that Nigerian manufacturers faced impending challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic with impacts on their businesses as they struggled to navigate out of the pandemic.  Particularly, he said, the consequence of this development was that sectoral groups ran short of supplies of raw materials due to disruptions in the global value chain and many still cannot access forex. He added that the global price of crude oil also crashed, leaving the country with no choice than to review downward its expenditure plan for the year. “We commend the Government for a number of incentives put on the table to reflate the economy.   “We consider these initiatives to be in the right direction   “These packages expressed Government’s intention to improve access to affordable long-term loans, sustain manufacturing and further promote inward-looking policies with a view to building a self-reliant economy.   “While looking forward to the release of implementation guidelines for some of the stimulus packages to spell out the conditions/transmission mechanism for their implementation and ensure transparency, the Association will urgently needs to engage the CBN to provide vital information on how banks will be supported to guarantee business continuity and expansion;  “Government should create a differentiated energy structure for the MAN sector.  Nevertheless, we also thank the Government for constructive engagement with MAN on the AfCFTA.  However, MAN has some few concerns on the trading Goods Market access.  There is a major concern on the Rules of Origin. Why MAN appreciates a simple, transparent and flexible Rules of Origin, it is important for extensive engagement with the productive sectors before finalization of the Agreement, he added.