The national president, Association of Nigeria License Customs Agent (ANLCA), Hon. Iju Tony  Nwabunike appreciate the efforts of the Federal Government and its agencies operating in  the ports for their efforts in making sure businesses move smoothly in the ports during this period of lockdown.  He therefore urged all freight forwarders to take full advantage of the 21days waiver on Rent Charges and full port operation during the public holiday to exit their cargoes from the ports.  Nwabunike said this in a press statement made available yesterday while  giving an update of the latest developments in the maritime sector as promised to his members in the freight forwarding profession.  “The Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) in collaboration with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has asked all Customs Brokers and Freight Forwarders who have finalised all payments of duties and ready to load their cargoes to do so as the Customs will allow exit of such cargoes from the ports during the Public Holidays from Friday 10th – Monday 13th of April 2020.   “The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has issued mandate letters to Terminal Operators for waiver of Rent Charges for initial period of 21 days, effective 23rd, March; 2020.The letter was dated 2nd April, 2020 and titled RELIEF MEASURES TO PORT USERS DUE TO OUTBREAK OF COVID19.  “It reads in part ” Following the scourge of Covid19 pandemic and in line with the global trend of providing reliefs to businesses for the benefits of the general populace, you are hereby directed to suspend Rent Charges on Consignments with effect from Monday, 23rd March, 2020 for an initial period of 21 days”.  ” Dear colleagues with these two critical trade windows given us by the government agencies involved, I want to implore all of you to effectively grab this opportunity and move your consignments from the ports of Lagos as fast as you can, while the window last” he said.  He assured them that the leadership of ANLCA will, especially at this period liaise with all relevant Government Agencies and other Port Stakeholders to make sure members do not suffer undue losses in this trying time and also appeal to them to always follow the right channels of information so that they are not deprived or short changed by any agency during this period.   He however  appreciate the Maritime Media for their efforts in keeping all stakeholders informed of  what is happening in the ports, despite the lockdown challenges. “No doubt the media has been a dependable partner and I urge government agencies to also extend their hands of fellowship at this period to the media to aid them perform more creditably. The   maritime media in Nigeria is very vibrant I must say”  “And to my colleagues in the profession, I promised you we will do everything humanly possible to alleviate your sufferings during this period through constructive stakeholders engagement with all parties concern” he quipped.  