The Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) has urged government agencies to extend hands of fellowship at the period of COVID19 pandemic and stay at home directive to maritime media to aid them perform more creditably.
Iju Tony Nwabunike, National President of ANLCA who made the plea in a statement made available to newsmen on Wednesday in Lagos, added that the various donations made by the private and public sector stakeholders would not be a success with media assistance.
. Nwabunike stressed that: “I want to also appreciate the Maritime Media for their efforts in keeping all stakeholders informed of what is happening in the ports, despite the lockdown challenges. “No doubt the media has been a dependable partner and I urge government agencies to also extend their hands of fellowship at this period to the media to aid them perform more creditably. The maritime media in Nigeria is very vibrant I must say. While giving situational report against the backdrop of port operations in line with the lockdown, the ANLCA boss disclosed that the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) in collaboration with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has asked all freight agents who have finalised all payments of duties and ready to load their cargoes to do so as the customs will allow exit of such cargoes from the ports during the Public Holidays from Friday 10th – Monday 13th of April 2020. He explained that the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), also issued mandate letters to terminal operators for waiver of rent charges for initial period of 21 days, effective 23rd, March, 2020. He said the letter was dated 2nd April, 2020 and titled RELIEF MEASURES TO PORT USERS DUE TO OUTBREAK OF COVID19. It reads in part ” Following the scourge of Covid19 pandemic and in line with the global trend of providing reliefs to businesses for the benefits of the general populace, you are hereby directed to suspend Rent Charges on Consignments with effect from Monday, 23rd March, 2020 for an initial period of 21 days”. ” Dear colleagues with these two critical trade windows given us by the government agencies involved, I want to implore all of you to effectively grab this opportunity and move your consignments from the ports of Lagos as fast as you can, while the window last. “Once again, dear Customs Brokers, Freight Forwarders and Stakeholders in the Nigeria Maritime industry, I want to first of all appreciate all the efforts all of us in the Maritime community have put up to keep the sector functioning despite the risks and challenges of the Covid19 pandemic. “There is no gain saying that the Coronavirus pandemic occasioned by the total lockdown of activities in Lagos State has in no small way, affected our lives and businesses. “But I urge you all not to despair as this is the price the whole world is paying now to keep both citizens and economies alive. I must say for us in Nigeria and the maritime sector, though it has not been easy, but not either too bad. “Dear colleagues in the freight forwarding profession, as promised, I want to keep you abreast with the latest developments in the maritime sector as at today, Wednesday 8th, April, 2020. He assured all that the leadership of ANLCA will, especially at this period liaise with all relevant Government Agencies and other Port Stakeholders to make sure our members do not suffer undue losses in this trying time. “I want to also appeal to all my colleagues to always follow the right channels of information so that they are not deprived or short changed by any agency during this period. ” Finally I want to so far appreciate the efforts of the Federal Government and its agencies operating in the ports for their efforts in making sure businesses move smoothly in our ports during this period of lockdown.” ” And to my colleagues in the profession, I promised you we will do everything humanly possible to alleviate your sufferings during this period through constructive stakeholders engagement with all parties concern, “the statement by the ANLCA President stated. 