The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) is supporting the manufacturing and importation of essential materials to combat the challenges of COVID-19 through the deployment of 28 relevant international Standards from the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) and one from the African Organisation for Standardisation (ARSO) on alcohol based Hand Sanitizers. The Standards, which are being provided at no cost to local manufacturers, are being made available to the National Committee on Sustainable Production and Delivery of Essential Commodities during the COVID-19 pandemic of which SON is a member. This is essentially to guide local manufacturers as well as provide a benchmark for adjudging all imported products in the category during the pandemic. According to a statement from the office of the Director General, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Osita Aboloma, indicates that the deployment of the Standards is to meet emergency needs occasioned by COVID-19 globally, while the process for the adoption would continue unhindered inspite of the lockdown.  The statement also disclosed that SON has received free, unlimited usage of the ISO web conferencing system (Zoom) for national standards development work only, “With this offer, Nigeria as an eligible member will be assigned a Zoom account for developing countries, we can share with our Technical Committee (TC) members and experts, creating the equivalent of a “virtual conference room” at the national level, the statement clarified. He commended the past efforts of all members of various National Technical and Mirror Committees in ensuring development, adoption, adaption and review of market driven Standards for use in Nigeria. He explained that, their patriotic efforts have helped in great measure to promote the competitiveness of Made in Nigeria products locally and for exports, safety of consumers and steady growth of the nation’s economy. Aboloma said further that with this, Nigeria’s TC meetings could continue largely, while its stakeholders and experts keep safe in this time of bans on gatherings and travels. The SON DG, however, called on TC members across the nation to expect invitations from the Secretariat for participation in the consideration and adoption of several International Standards from ISO resources, to support global efforts in dealing with the COVID-19 crisis. He further stated that the TC would also consider the adoption of a French National Standard “AFNOR SPEC S76-001 Barrier Masks – Guide to minimum requirements, methods of testing, making and use” to provide necessary quality guidance for mass production of face masks in the country especially by Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Aboloma listed some of the international Standards compiled by ISO to support global efforts in dealing with the COVID-19 crisis as follows; ISO 374-5:2016 Protective gloves against dangerous chemicals and micro-organisms – Part 5: Terminology and performance requirements for micro-organisms risk. This however includes, ISO 10651-3:1997 Lung ventilators for medical use – Part 3: Particular requirements for emergency and transport ventilators, ISO 10651-5:2006 Lung ventilators for medical use – Particular requirements for basic safety and essential performance – Part 5: Gas-powered emergency resuscitators and ISO 13688:2013 Protective clothing – General requirements. Others are, ISO 17510:2015 Medical devices – Sleep apnoea breathing therapy – Masks and application accessories, ISO 19223:2019 Lung ventilators and related equipment -Vocabulary and semantics, ISO 22301:2019 Security and resilience – Business continuity management systems – Requirements. ISO 5356-1:2015 Anaesthetic and respiratory equipment – Conical connectors – Part 1: Cones and sockets. ISO 80601-2-12: 2020 Medical electrical equipment – Part 2-12: The Particular requirements for basic safety and essential performance of critical care ventilators and ISO 80601-2-80: 2018 Medical electrical equipment – Part 2-80: Particular requirements for basic safety and essential performance of ventilatory. 