Skyway Aviation Handling Company PLC (SAHCO) has carried out a comprehensive fumigation of the cargo area of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport aspart of our contribution to the control of the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic since the Cargo Terminal has been saddled with the responsibility of handling the influx of essential supplies in the fight against the spread of the COVID-19 virus. SAHCO, has also been entrusted with providing aviation ground handling services for some evacuation flights of nationals of other countries, this is due to the restriction of foreign and domestic airline movement by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority as a means to curtail the spread of the virus. Additionally, Skyway Aviation Handling Company PLC has been responsible for the ground handling activities of humanitarian cargo flights conveying essential suppliesfor fighting the propagation of the COVID-19 virus.SAHCO is the only Aviation ground handling provider that is present in all the commercially operated airports in Nigeria, is both ISAGO and RA3 certified, hence has the capacity to handle all freights from and to European countries. SAHCO also owns the best ultra-modern warehouse in West Africa and one of the best in Africa. ALSO READ THIS:SAHCO RESTRATEGISES AT 2020 MANAGEMENT RETREAT In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, SAHCO responded to the global concern in line with the measures approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Nigerian Centre For Disease Control and Prevention (NCDC). Massive campaigns were organized for all categories of staff in all locations across Nigeria informing staff of the measures to take to prevent infection in the course of their duty and at home. Emphasis was made on hand hygiene and the procedures demonstrated. The Aircraft cleaning staff, the Passenger Agents, the Baggage/Cargo handlers were given detailed briefs and attention. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) was distributed to all staff to prevent infection. All customer facing staff was given nose and mouth masks. Temperature readers, hand wash facilities and hand sanitisers were provided in all SAHCO locations for both customer and staff. Bulletins on critical information about the COVID -19 virus had been distributed to staff, noticeboards and offices. SAHCO as a responsible organization fumigates her facilities frequently but in the wake of the outbreak, SAHCO has had to fumigate her facilities against the COVID -19 virus so as to play her role in curtailing the spread of the virus and by also ensuring that all staff who are involved in providing ground handling activities are properly kitted with the appropriate PPEs and are conversant about procedures to take to prevent infection. SAHCO is involved in Passenger handling, Baggage Handling, Ramp Handling, Cargo handling and warehousing and other aviation ground handling activities.