Mr Bigg’s, a leading quick service restaurant operated by UAC Restaurants Limited, yesterday shared over four hundred alcohol-based sanitizers, surgical mask and hand gloves to Lagosians at Ile-epo market in the Oke-Odo Agege Local Government Development Area as part of its corporate social responsibility in response to the fight against Coronavirus pandemic under the code name COVID-19.  Hundreds of market women, men and shoppers thronged Mr Bigg’s stand amidst strict observation of the social –distancing guideline to curb the spread of the novel virus among the market people. Speaking at the sanitizers’ distribution activation at the Ile-epo market in Agege, the marketing manager of Mr Bigg’s, Mrs. Ethel Mba said, “As a responsible organisation, Mr Bigg’s is only keeping its brand promise of ‘doing good’. We are supporting the government to fight and curb the spread of this virus that is ravaging the world.” “The country is going through a rough path at the moment and for this reason, we are sharing these products to help protect Nigerians from contracting this virus. Our desire is to see this pandemic come to an end in Nigeria and indeed the world,” she said. Some of the shoppers and traders at the market who shared their experiences said, Mr Bigg’s has done well to pick the market as one of the markets in the state to share sanitizers, medical mask and hand gloves. Mrs. Udeme Bassey, a shopper said, “there is scarcity of sanitizers, nose mask and hand gloves at the stores within Agege therefore, this initiative by Mr Bigg’s is welcome development. We are unable to purchase these products that are being given out free of charge. We are grateful to Mr Bigg’s,” she said. A trader at the Ile-epo market, Mr. Olaitan Lukmon thanked the brand and tasked other organizations to follow this path in order to protect the poor in the society from coming in contact with the virus. According to Mr. Lukmon, “The prices of these products have had geometrical increment since the outbreak of the Coronavirus in Nigeria.” He added, “Mr Bigg’s has helped bridge the gap for the rural poor by provision of sanitizers, medical mask and hand gloves to over 400 Lagosians. Another shopper, Mrs. Grace Jonah said, “As you can see, everyone in the market is excited. In fact, I am coming from a store down the street to get these products but the store is already out of stock so, getting these products from Mr Bigg’s free is a thing of joy for me and everyone here.” The current initiative has been added to other platforms where the brand gives back to the society. One of such platforms is ‘Make a Difference Campaign’ – a two-pronged campaign aimed at connecting with children on their special day and rewarding loyal customers to the brand.