In spite of all the efforts by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) to truly foreclose the spread of Coronavirus in the ports’ arena, a Port and Cargo staff who works on one of the terminals has tested positive to the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic in Lagos. The development, it was gathered resulted into a flurid of activities which included the fumigation of some terminal, the intervention of the Ports Health Department for other necessary action, even though it was later discovered that the staff had also done the needful, in terms of precautionary measures to avoid infecting others. It was learnt that said man had not been in the office since Friday, April 17, 2020; having visited his father-in-law and family during the weekend of Friday, April 17, 2020, and Sunday, April 19, 2020. Highlighted to be totally asymptomatic of the infection, the P&C staff however on arrival in Lagos, learnt that the medical practitioner father-in-law he visited, had all taken ill, alongside his own wife and children. When on Monday, April 20, they were all diagnosed with Coronavirus, he immediately wrote to his office of the development, and subsequently decided to self- isolate, as well as get tested. On Thursday, April 23, 2020, he again wrote to inform the company that he had tested positive to Coronavirus and that the entire family was now receiving treatment at one of the isolation centres in Lagos. The Port and Cargo it was further learnt, promptly wrote on the same Thursday, (April 23, 2020) to inform and seek advice from the Coordinator of Health Ports Services in line with guidelines laid down by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), for the report of COVID-19 incidents. Efforts to obtain the official reaction of the P&C to the development was futile as image-maker and spokesman was not immediately available for comment. However, the Nigerian Ports Authority was genuinely forthcoming, even though the Authority’s Spokesman, General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, Engr. Adams Jatto wasn’t too happy with the way some adventurous social media writers had attempting to blow the mild development out of proportion. “The Authority wishes to appeal to the media to verify the information before going to press in order to avoid raising unnecessary tension”, he stressed, while confirming the development, emphasising that safety of the Ports had not been compromised. “The company, in line with advice from Port Health Services, has disinfected the premises, while all personnel who interacted with the staff have been identified and asked to self-isolate”, Jatto stated further, noting that the Authority had proactively followed up on the development, as laid down regulations stipulated. “There are laid down procedures for the management of suspicions of COVID-19 incidents at the ports and the Authority will, in collaboration with all other government agencies, follow these processes through whenever the occasions arise”, the Image maker assured, thanking all stakeholders and Nigerians for their credible support  