 The Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority NCAA has suspended the issuance and processing of AOC and other related certificates as a result of the increasing spread of COVID-19.
AOC is the approval given to airlines for them to carry on flight operations and NCAA also issues certificates to pilots, engineers, cabin crew and others for them to carry on their professional activities. In a letter dated April 1 and signed by NCAA Director-General, Captain Musa Nuhu, told industry stakeholders that aircraft or facility inspections and operational audits paid for by airlines remained suspended until June 30. It added that no applications or ongoing applications shall be processed during this period for AOC, Approved Maintenance Organisations (AMO), Aircraft Type Certificate Acceptance, Aircraft Registration and Related Matters, Modifications and Repairs, Airworthiness Certificates, Maintenance Clearance Certificates (MCC) amongst others. The letter said all existing operators intending to renew their approval certificates and Aircraft Maintenance Clearance Certificates must submit applications and proof of payment electronically, adding that NCAA would conduct desktop evaluations of document and request additional evidence or documents where necessary. The letter stated that no applications for extensions of maintenance intervals shall be considered during the period, except for essential and emergency flights approved by the Minister of Aviation. According to the letter, inspections, checks and audits paid for by clients are suspended until further notice. For the validity of personnel licences, NCAA stated that no new aviation personnel licences would be processed or issued during the lockdown. “All personnel whose licences are due to expire after April 1 can exercise the privileges of their licences for an extended period of up to June 30. This applies to pilots, air traffic controllers, cabin crew, aircraft maintenance engineer, flight dispatchers, aeronautical station operators, air traffic safety electronics personnel and designated examiners. Medical certificates will be extended for a period of up to June 30,” the letter stated. Meanwhile, the House Committee Chairman on Aviation, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji, has appealed to airlines and private organisations within the aviation sector not to abandon their staff in this period of uncertainties occasioned by the pandemic. Nnaji, who represents Nkanu East/West Federal Constituency of Enugu State, said he was disturbed by the memo issued to its staff by Max Air to the effect that it would not pay its workers’ salaries during the two-week lockdown directive by the federal government. “The memo, which has now gone viral, further stressed that the state of no-pay would extend if the situation persists and my major worry is that other organisations in the sector may do the same if care is not taken,” he said.