The Non Governmental Organisation (NGO) under the aegis of WAKAWell (IOMX) is the International Organization for Migration’s (IOM) innovative campaign in West Africa that seeks to prevent exploitation by empowering young people to make informed decisions about their future, both at home and abroad. In a statement sent to the AmehNews stated that the non-governmental organization, WAKAWell has moved beyond raising awareness to averting behavior change. It does this by applying a Communication for Development (C4D), an evidence-based and participatory framework to design its activities.  The statement further revealed that the NGO is funded by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, and works closely with communities, civil society organizations, government agencies, and returned migrants and youth groups across West Africa, with a focus on Guinea and Nigeria.   The report also disclosed that the WAKA Well which means move well in Pidgin English by IOM X is working closely with youth and their communities to produce media content for television, radio, online platforms and community screenings. This community-led content seeks to raise awareness about local opportunities and risks associated to irregular migration, it added.  All WAKAWell media content is available free-of-charge.  The WAKAwell by IOM X campaigns (Waka means move in Pidgin English) is an info online platform is optimized for learning, storytelling and social sharing–it provides information to young aspirant migrants’ in West Africa that will help them make informed decisions for their future, at home and abroad. The platform features community-specific landing pages which include:  Videos created by communities in Nigeria and Guinea; Success stories about how people define a life of success; Safe migration information (including how to get a passport, how to apply for a visa, lists of required documents, embassy contact details, and more);  Opportunities for education, employment and entrepreneurship in the communities in which Waka activities are taking place; and  Contact details to talk to someone in-person about your options at home and abroad.(e.g. Migrant Resource Centres).  COMMUNICATING WITH A DIFFERENCE C4D is used to understanding and people’s knowledge, attitudes and practices around a certain issue in order to work with them to develop messages and tools for positive change. IOMX ensures results are continuouslyassessedtoinformthecampaign’sworkandtracktheimpactofitsprogrammes.   ABOUT WAKA WELL:  WAKAWell (IOMX) is the International Organization for Migration’s (IOM) innovative campaign in West Africa that seeks to prevent exploitation by empowering young people to make informed decisions about their future, both at home and abroad  CONTACT: To learn more or to connect with WAKA Well by IOM X, visit : WAKAwell.info: @IOMXorg      @IOMXorg IOMX@iom.int  WAKAWell by IOMX operates under the IOM Regional Office for West and Central Africa in Dakar.