The MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF) is set to launch a series of online masterclasses on their portal. The masterclasses offer exclusive access to practical, industry expert-led skills workshops that afford film and television professionals the ability to interact and learn from the top professionals in Africa. The launch will begin with the Produce Like a PRO! masterclass series, a 20-module masterclass on production from pre to post which has been recorded to watch on the go.. Comprising 20 carefully crafted modules, the Produce Like a PRO! series offers easier access to training material, tutorials and templates which will be made accessible to over 25,000 registered users with a profile on the MTF portal The masterclass offering, according to the CEO of MultiChoice, John Ugbe, is part of MultiChoice Group’s mission to upskill emerging creatives and seasoned professionals in the Film and TV industry. “What makes the Produce Like a PRO! series unique is that it’s been specially designed as an A to Z package for tools and templates to equip new producers with the know-how to operate in this industry. From budgeting to casting, the modules have been created by Marie Rosholt, a highly esteemed pioneer in reality television who was Executive Producer of 12 series of Big Brother, Survivor, Fear Factor, Deal or no Deal and other series. The recorded masterclasses were filmed and packaged by our MTF students, hosted by our MTF Academies in Lagos, Nairobi and Lusaka with leading industry experts including Tunde Kelani, Christian Epps and Steve Gukas,” said Ugbe. The Produce Like a PRO! series is expected to break barriers of access industry information and ensure that veteran knowledge and experience is passed on to the next generation of African storytellers. The series also compliments recorded masterclasses which address industry concerns such as accessibility, opportunity and quality in local productions. Launched in March 2019 as the third touchpoint of MultiChoice’s ground-breaking Corporate Shared Value (CSV) initiative, the MTF portal is a pan-African, film and television digital marketplace for information sharing on all aspects of Africa’s creative industry. The MTF portal offers open, cost-free access to film creatives across Africa to showcase their talent, access opportunities, stay up to date with industry news and expand their industry network. To date, the portal has over 25,000 registered profiles.