The stakeholders’ group that was established in response to the COVIC-19 Pandemic; the Maritime Task Team has charged the management of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) to make clarification on the 21 days’ waiver directive that was given by the agency. The team stated this in a communique signed by its chairman who is also the Registrar of the Council of the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN); Barrister Samuel Nwakohu after a meeting in Apapa on Tuesday. It will be recalled the Managing Director of NPA, Hadiza Bala Usman, had issued a letter to shipping companies and terminal operators directing waivers on cargoes due to the lockdown in Lagos. However, clearing agents have been lamenting that despite the directive, the shipping companies and terminal operators are still collecting demurrage. The Task Team also said that there is need for regular sanitization and fumigation of the ports to ensure that he environment is safe and clean. The communique also advised that freight forwarders should stay at home, if they don’t have any legitimate business at the Port. It reiterated the need for e-payments to be encouraged among freight forwarders, while calling for the need to apply for port pass to aid the freight forwarders movement and for easy access to the ports. The groups however charged other government agencies like:  the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), NPA and the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) to assist in the provision of buses for movement of freight forwarders to and from Apapa during this trying period. “That each bus should not carry more than 17 people includes drivers and security personnel. That there should be regular sanitization and fumigation of the Port to ensure it is safe and clean” It also directed the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) to ensure safety by putting in place preventive measures like hand washing facilities, sanitizers, gloves, nose mask and thermometer. Parts of the communique, also reads: “That the Commissioner of Police, Western Ports Command should be part of the meeting. “That CRFFN should strive to be a member of the Presidential Task Force to represent and be the voice of the Freight Forwarders. That the Registrar should writes relevant authorities on the application of Section 27, 28 and 29 of CEMA Law during crisis period. That there is a need to maintain the Team for the purpose of the effect of post COVID – 19” 