….. Costing Nigeria over N100 million monthly in running cost without any economic benefit to the nation in return.  More facts have emerged as to why the multi billion naira floating dock acquired by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has continued to rot away at the Naval Dockyard in Lagos. Speaking at a press briefing in Lagos yesterday, President of Nigerian Association of Master Mariners, Captain Tajudeen Alao disclosed that the former Director General of NIMASA, Dr Patrick Akpobolokemi had taken the decision to acquire the floating dock in error.  Capt Alao lamented that the floating dock facility is still lying idle at the Naval Dockyard in Victoria Island Lagos and NIMASA is now confused on what to do with it.  The AmehNews recall, NIMASA under its current Director General, Dr. Dakuku Peterside had in June 11, 2018 taken delivery of the floating dock which was acquired at a whooping N50billion. But since the arrival of the dock in Nigeria, it is yet to be put to use.  Peterside at then said the modular floating dockyard was built in Netherlands and Romania, assuring that apart from boosting ship repair capacity, it has the potential to transform Nigeria’s maritime industry.  According to him, the intention of NIMASA was to deploy the floating dock to Okerenkoko, the permanent site of the Nigerian Maritime University, Okerenkoko, Delta State with the intention to train Nigerians on ship repairs while at the same time generating revenue.  When the dock was acquired, NIMASA had assured that it would help boost ship repair capacity, generate wealth and create employment for Nigerians.  But the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi on assumption of office had made it clear that the federal government is not interested in spending money to create a maritime university in Delta State.  This decision has since crippled the university, a pet project of NIMASA.  The floating dock has been reported to be costing Nigeria over N100 million monthly in running cost without any economic benefit to the nation in return.  According to Capt Alao, “The floating dock was constructed mainly to be taken to Okerenkoko, the feasibility study and every other job was done and it was for that purpose”  “So if you now bring the floating dock and you want to take it anywhere, it would be difficult, never mind the initial political statements on where the floating dock should be taken to”   “The man who took the decision in the first place to construct the dock was wrong to have done so, just like many other decisions, but then, the deed has been done”   “There is always a coronation between a floating dock and the waterfront infrastructure where you are bringing it to, if there is no alignment, you are going to have serious issues”  “If you don’t get it right, you are going to pose danger on how to operate it”  “The floating dock is at the naval dockyard Victoria Island; we pray that it does not become an albatross” 