….research newsletter of the George Gilder Report and do buy for use a brand-new book all about Life After Google,–} Today, everyone is talking broadband. Everyone is talking about the advantages, the benefits and the need to make it more available and accessible.The importance is becoming more evident each passing day. Indeed, it is becoming general knowledge that access to broadband internet grows quality of live, productivity increases and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) expands. The significance is immense.  Spectrum Auctions and Related Initiatives Despite challenges facing telecoms industry over the years, according to the operational records released by the sector regulator recently, the industry has recorded impressive growth, which pointing to the effective regulatory environment created by the Commission. Today, telecoms contribution to gross domestic product (GDP) increased from 8.50 percent in August 2015 to 11.39 percent as at October, 2019.  Danbatta’s job as the umpire of the telecoms industry was affirmed for a five-year tenure in the first instance, as stipulated in the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA), 2003. It is evident, four years and few months into his five-year term, Danbatta has openly demonstrated about his competence as a regulator per excellence, having continued to provide the right and leadership at NCC.  From that August 2015 till date, according to the records, the industry has recorded impressive growth statistics, pointing to the effective regulatory environment created by the Commission to the strategic implementation of its 8-Point Agenda through the Commission as articulated by the Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, as the Executive Vice Chairman/CEO of the Nigerian Communications Commission that “NCC will develop and implement flexible, market-oriented spectrum regulatory policies that promote highly-efficient use of spectrum in ways that stimulate innovation, investment, and job creation and increased consumer benefits.”  “One aspect of the Commission’s regulatory activities which has added the needed fillip to its accomplishment with regards to broadband penetration is in the area of effective utilization of available spectrum. Apart from achieving and surpassing the 30 per cent broadband penetration, the NCC had recorded some broadband-driving successes, especially in the area of spectrum auctions.  “These include the auction of the six slots of 2×5 megahertz (MHz) in the 2.6 gigahertz (GHz) Band, re-planning of the 800 MHz band for Long Term Evolution (LTE), licensing of two slots of 10 MHz each in the 700 MHz band, as well as the opening up of the E-band spectrum 70/80 GHz band for both last-mile and backhaul services.  “Other regulatory instruments by the Commission in this regards include the Spectrum Trading Framework, which allows for transferability of spectrum licence from a dormant licensee to another operator that needs such spectrum which has been redundant for the deployment telecom services.  Bloomberg recently reported that “Nigeria plans to invest 265 billion naira ($732 million) in broadband infrastructure over the next four years as the government sets its sights on nationwide coverage and to boost an economy recovering from a 2016 contraction.” According to the report quoting Professor Umar Danbatta, the CEO, NCC, “the government will provide 65 billion naira for the project and six private infrastructure companies will provide the balance under a public-private partnership scheme.” The funds would enable the country to roll out an additional 30,000 kilometres (19,000 miles) of fibre across its 774 local governments, taking the total to 71,000 kilometres by 2024. Why is it beginning to look like the NCC is running its own race? The Minister is filled with passion but is struggling to assert his authority. He needs to know that he cannot do it alone. Synergy is required. The Minister, its agencies and commissions must find a way to work together for the common good. Broadband is too important to be handled haphazardly. Broadband adoption, he explained, benefits people in concrete and practical ways. Children can do homework at home. Parents can become more involved in their child’s school. Families can stream educational content. Adults can obtain digital skills training, including improving workforce skills and connecting with potential employers. The benefits are endless. Since broadband is so important, the objective must be to constantly explore ways to ensure availability. Indeed, everyone using broadband makes broadband better for everyone else. I urge NCC management to trial subscription to research newsletter of the George Gilder Report and do buy for use a brand-new book all about Life After Google, a well research which will comes with transformation that may prove to be the biggest revolutionary transformation yet  The Captioned Photo: The Executive Vice Chairman/CEO of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Garba Danbatta.