The Chief Executive Officer of The Nigerian Stock Exchange (“NSE” or “The Exchange”), Mr Oscar N. Onyema OON, today presented the key performance of the Exchange in 2019 and gave a prognosis for the market in the New Year 2020.The event, aptly themed 2019 Market Recap and Outlook for 2020 held on Monday, January 13, 2020, had in attendance the stockbroking community, analysts, media and other stakeholders. Delivering his presentation, Mr. Onyema stated, “The Nigerian capital market mirrored the performance of the larger economy, which continued its moderate path of recovery, growing by 2.28% (Q3’19). The Nigerian bourse witnessed the impact of various factors including: a  weak macroeconomic landscape; fiscal and monetary policy direction; underwhelming trends in Foreign Portfolio Investments; concerns around the statbility of the naira and moderate corporate earnings. While these factors led to a negative performance in the equity market during the year, our Fixed Income market performed exceptionally well, reflecting a flight to safety.”  Key highlights of his presentation are as follows: Global Capital Market From an international investor’s perspective, the Nigerian bourse had to compete with developed and emerging capital markets which saw risk-based assets priced/valued more competitively. Capital conducive US Fed policy enabled foreign investors to economically enhance leverage and seek investment opportunities in their home and adjacent countries, necessitating Africa’s largest economy to adjust to new economic realities.  Product Performance Although the Nigerian Stock Exchange’s All Share Index (ASI or All Share Index) posted a negative return of -14.60% to close the year at 26,842.07, the ASI reached a year-high of 32,715.20 in February 2019. Furthermore, the equity market capitalization increased by 10.55% to N12.97Tn from N11.73Tn in 2018, largely due to sustained primary market activities throughout the year, most notably the listings of MTN Nigeria Communications Plc and Airtel Africa. To support the equity market in 2019, The Exchange rolled out various initiatives such as: The fixed income market performed exceptionally well in 2019, as market capitalization increased by 20.42% to N12.92Tn from N10.72Tn in 2018. Turnover also increased by 389.26% when compared to 2018 although capital raising was dominated by the Federal Government, being responsible for 60% of bond issuances during the period in a bid to finance fiscal and infrastructure deficits. Some of the ground breaking achievements for the year include: Strategic Performance across Business Development The Exchange showed commitment to achieving its strategic objectives during the year under review. Some of the milestones achieved across business development were the launch of the: The Exchange recorded milestone listing of big corporates such as:   Market Initiatives  The Exchange sustained its thought leadership and advocacy role in the capital market by:  Corporate Citizenship Development In upholding its key pillars of sustainability, The NSE: Outlook for 2020 Presenting The Exchange’s efforts in 2020, Onyema said, “The year 2020 has started on a good note, with the NSE ASI recording a 9.41% improvement year-to-date as at January 10. We intend to work closely with our stakeholders to sustain this growth trajectory. As African Champions, we will maintain momentum in executing the NSE’s 2018 – 2021 Corporate Strategy in our efforts to elevate the prominence of Africa’s global financial markets.” In its aspiration to become a more agile and demutualized exchange, and pursuant to the SEC’s ‘No Objection’ rule, The Exchange will proceed to next steps which include seeking formal approval from its members on demutualization Scheme. While keeping an eye on the strategic intent post-demutualization, The Exchange commits to leveraging its vast network of stakeholders, in addition to developing new strategic partnerships to deliver better products and services to the investing public. About NSE The Nigerian Stock Exchange services the largest economy in Africa, and is championing the development of Africa’s financial markets. The Exchange offers listing and trading services, licensing services, market data solutions, ancillary technology services, and more. The Nigerian Stock Exchange continues to evolve to meet the needs of its valued customers, and to achieve the highest level of competitiveness. It is an open, professional and vibrant exchange, and the Entrepreneurial Growth hub of Africa. The Nigerian Stock Exchange aspires to be Africa’s foremost securities exchange, connecting Nigeria, Africa and the world. The compiler of the indices maintains the right to modify the circulated selection above in connection with any mergers, takeovers, suspension or resumption of trading or any other company structure changes during the period before the effective date of the annual review.