With the spirit to ignite the greatness of Nigerians to actualize their full potentials, MTN has introduced a new thematic campaign tagged “Turn it Up” According to the company, the campaign is a call to action and not a marketing campaign, stating they want to be part of the success of the 180 millions Nigerians by using its technology and tools to better their lives irrespective of their locations and they don’t need to migrate from their current location before their dreams are actualized, considering the high rate of migration out of states and the country. Basically, the campaign seeks to encourage Nigerians to look within and live their brightest lives by taking advantage of the varied opportunities around them using new technologies and tools. Speaking at the unveil of the campaign to journalists at the company’s head office in Lagos, Chief Marketing Officer, MTN Nigeria, Rahul De said “We want Nigerians to excel and attain their dreams and aspirations. “This campaign is about changing and improving the quality of lives, encouraging Nigerians to rethink and embrace a new approach that reflects the changing dynamics of the world around us. This is what drives us to continue investing and exploring opportunities for Nigerians.” Similarly, the General Manager, Brands, and Communication, Richard Iweanoge, said, “Every Nigerian deserves a positive turnaround in their lives and we believe opportunities abound in and around the individual, but the opportunities are only potent when we choose to bring them to life. We are simply saying, ‘Don’t look too far; the opportunities you seek are closer than you think’. The combination of these is what we speak to when we turn it up.” “We want every Nigerian to remember that in whatever they have chosen to pursue, we are that brand that will provide the support for them to attain those dreams and aspirations,” he said. He urged Nigerians to utilize the MTN vast data services to harness information that will Turn It Up their dreams come to life. He added that the company will continue to offer all the necessary tools that will take its consumers to the next level. “63 percent of Nigerians are below the age of 23 and are more tech savvy than the previous generation. To this young generation who has access to technology and the Internet, the solution to their challenges is to migrate. But we at MTN do not think that the solution is too far from us, hence the decision to launch this new product designed to provide them with the necessary tools that will enable them unleash their potentials,” he said. He added: “Nigeria has a cultural truth that we can’t deny, and that is the truth of ‘hustling’ and especially hustling outside the nation’s shores. But if we think deeply inward, we would find out that Nigerians don’t really have to travel too far to become successful. Turn It Up is therefore designed to bring the best out of Nigerians at all level without necessarily leaving their immediate physical environment.” The Chief Operating Officer Mr. Mazen Mroue said MTN Nigeria is constantly improving on the technology and services rendered to their subscribers. He also said priority services will be given to all members of the Nigeria Armed Forces who visit their stores and the school where the TVC was shoot will be adopted as a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) project. The TVC features a young boy who watched his father go through the drudgery of performing as a masquerade dancer and returning home with chronic back pain every day. The young boy started researching on the internet using the MTN network and invented a digitally controlled entertainment masquerade that delighted the villagers and his aging father. The boy had the flair for research and decided it was time to Turn It Up. Powered by a TV commercial, radio, press, and outdoor advertisements, the ‘Turn it Up’ campaign was launched nationwide reminding Nigerians to reach for their dreams and achieve personal and career success. Nollywood Actress and MTN brand Ambassador Dakore Akande shared her story to attain greatness and recognition in her career. She said when she gave up on everything in Nigeria and went to London, she started getting recognition from Nigeria for movies she shot and gave up on. This rekindle her zeal and made her come back home to Turn It Up.