Sifax Group Chairman, Barr. (Dr.) Taiwo Afolabi was a recipient of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations 2019 Personality of the year award. The award was bestowed on him at the national dinner which was held recently by the body. He was represented by Mr. Basil Agboarumi, Managing Director, SAHCO Plc. L-R: Vanessa Uansohia, Manager, Corporate Communications, Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc; Olumuyiwa Akande, Group Head, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group; Basil Agboarumi, Managing Director, Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc; Rotimi Oladele (Ph.d), former National President, Nigerian Institute of Public Relations and Philips Ojo, Officer, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group at the 2019 national NIPR dinner where Dr. Taiwo Afolabi was awarded with the 2019 PR Personality of the year award held at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja. Sifax Group Operational Profiles: The company, which began operations as SIFAX Nigeria Limited in 1988, started as a freight forwarding agency in Lagos, Nigeria. Services rendered at its inception included freight forwarding, haulage and warehousing operations, as well as adjunct import and export support services. 2001 SIFAX Group commenced operations in Ghana on 21st June 2001. It provides shipping services for top multinationals in the country such as Dangote Group and many others. The company today is one of the most equipped shipping agents that provides clearing and forwarding services to many industries in the country. 2004  SIFAX Offdock Nigeria Limited was established in 2004 to efficiently operate off-dock facilities and services of the Group. With the terminal located within two minutes drive from both the Apapa and Tin Can Island ports, SIFAX Offdock is strategically located and accessible to the major ports from where it easily receives cargo as a temporary hold and provides easy exit for custom-cleared cargoes to any part of the country. In 2006, the company which had become a group of companies then, through one of its subsidiaries, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited, won the competitive bid to manage the Terminal C, Tin Can Island Ports, Lagos under the Federal Government’s port concessioning programme, which handed over the management of port operations across the country to private investors. The ports were hitherto managed by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). 2007 SIFAX Group commenced operations in the United States of America. The U.S. offices provides air & sea freight, courier services, LCL & FCL, shipping services and many more to customers all over the world. 2008  To strengthen its supply chain business, SIFAX Haulage & Logistics Company Limited was established in 2008. As a leading haulage business with over 100 trucks, the company today services various clients around the country. 2009  In December 2009, SIFAX Group also acquired the Skyway Aviation Handling Company Limited (SAHCOL), an aviation ground and passenger handling company. 2010  SIFAX Oil & Gas Company Limited was incorporated in 2010 and commenced business same year. It participated in the government regulated international trading of petroleum products in 2010 and 2011. The company has also acquired a licence to build a 120,000 bpd capacity Greenfield refinery in Nigeria. 2013  Sifax Logistics & Marine Services Limited was incorporated in 2013 to provide logistics and marine services for Nigeria and the West Africa sub-region. It provides special transportation with respect to offshore support services, marine vessel transportation, towage and other related marine services to both onshore and offshore oil terminals. 2019 SIFAX Financial Services & Sky Capital and Financial Allied International Limited was launched in 2019 to provide financial management advice to SMEs, insurance brokerage, investment portfolio, Bureau de Change (BDC), foreign exchange and credit assesment and analysis. It also provides microfinance/consumer lending and corporate funding. The subsidiary oversees the operations of the banks which SIFAX Group acquired in The Gambia and Sierra Leone. SIFAX Group, which has now become a big conglomerate, with diverse investments in Maritime, Aviation, Haulage, Logistics, Oil & Gas, Financial Services and Hospitality, among others, now operates globally with presence in the United States, United Kingdom, Ghana, South Africa, Holland, Belgium, Morocco, Spain and Djibouti.   