 The Lagos State Government on Monday proscribed the operations of okada and tricycle riders in six local governments and nine local council development areas of the state. The government, while directing security operatives to embark on total enforcement of the Lagos State Transport Sector Reform Law 2018, also ordered that the riders must not ply 10 major highways and 40 bridges and flyovers across the state. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, said the proscription would take effect from February 1. Omotosho, in a release at the State House, Alausa, said the decision was in response to ‘scary figures’ of fatal accidents recorded from okada and tricycle operators in the state between 2016 and 2019. He noted that the lack of regard for the state traffic laws by the riders had resulted in preventable loss of lives, adding that their movements on restricted highways had also contributed to traffic jams. The commissioner said, “After a robust assessment of the debate on what has been widely referred to as the motorcycle and tricycle menace, the Lagos State Government and the State Security Council have decided that the security and safety of lives of Lagosians are paramount. “The figures are scary. From 2016 to 2019, there were over 10,000 accidents recorded at the general hospitals alone. This number excludes unreported cases and those recorded by other hospitals. The total number of deaths from reported cases is over 600 as of today. “Also, the rate of crimes aided by okada and Keke NAPEP keeps rising. They are also used as getaway by criminals. Therefore, after consultations with stakeholders, the State Security Council, in compliance with the extant Transport Sector Reform Law 2018, has decided to commence enforcement of the law which bans the operation of okada and keke in six local governments and nine local council development areas.” Omotoso warned that the government would deal with violators in accordance with the laws. The proscribed areas are Apapa LGA, Apapa Iganmu LCDA, Lagos Mainland LGA, Yaba LCDA, Surulere LGA, Itire-Ikate LCDA, and Coker-Aguda LCDA. Others are Ikeja LGA, Onigbongbo LCDA, Ojodu LCDA, Eti-Osa LGA, Ikoyi-Obalende LCDA, Iru-Victoria Island LCDA, Lagos Island LGA and Lagos Island East LCDA. The restricted highways are Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, Oworonshoki-Oshodi Expressway, Lagos-Ikorodu Expressway, Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, Eti-Osa/Lekki-Epe Expressway, Lagos-Badagry Expressway, Funsho Williams Avenue, Agege Motor Road, and Eti-Osa Lekki Coastal Road. The bridges are Iyana-Ipaja Bridge, Agege; Dopemu Bridge, Agege; Airport/Ikeja Bridge; Agege Motor Road/Oshodi Loop, Oshodi; Mushin/Isolo Link Bridge; Dorman Long Bridge; Ojuelegba Bridge; National Stadium Flyover; Apapa-Iganmu Bridge; Apapa-Ijora Link Bridge; Liverpool Bridge, Apapa; Mile 2 Bridge-Loop, Amuwo-Odofin; Okota (Cele)/Ijesha Link Bridge; Apakun/Apapa-Oshodi Bridge Network; Ikorodu Road/Anthony Clover Leaf Bridge. Others are Trade Fair Flyover Bridge, Festac/Amuwo-Odofin Link Bridge, 2 Flyover Bridges along Alhaji Masha Road, Ojota Clover Leaf Bridge, Ogudu Bridge, Third Mainland Bridge, Maryland flyover, Ikeja General Hospital Flyover Bridge, Kodesoh Bridge, Oba Akran, Ikeja; Opebi Link Bridge; Sheraton-Opebi Bridge; Jibowu/Yaba flyover Bridge; Carter Bridge, Lagos; Bariga-Ifako Bridge; Apapa-Oshodi Expressway/Alapere Bridge; Bariga/Oworonsoki Bridge; Apapa-Oshodi Expressway/Gbagada U-Turn; Apapa-Oshodi Expressway; Third Mainland/ Oworonsoki Bridge; Eko Bridge; Apongbon flyover Bridge; Cowry Bridge (Officers Mess); Mcwen Bridge (Bonny Camp); Marina/Ikoyi Bridge and Ikoyi/Obalende Bridge.