The Nigeria International Petroleum Summit is an Africa’s premier business and technology conference for not just oil and gas but for also automobile, banking and finance, power (electricity), pipelines, LNG, infrastructure, engineering and construction amongst others Comes February 9-12, 2020, major stakeholders in the Global Oil Industry, with a focus on Africa, will converge in Abuja, the capital city of the continent’s largest oil-producing country, for the third edition of the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) 2020. The record has shown that NIPS has rapidly grown to become Africa’s premier business and technology conference for not just oil and gas but for also automobile, banking and finance, power (electricity), pipelines, LNG, infrastructure, engineering and construction amongst others. As you aware, over the last two editions, NIPS has evolved into a catalyst that helps stakeholders within and beyond Africa promote business development and policy advocacy among industry stakeholders, investors and regulators. According to this year’s programme, NIPS will serve as a pedestal for Nigeria to send clear signals to the global investment community about its energy sector ambitions. The statement disclosed that the summit will attracts as much as 3,000 top-level international and national oil executives together every year to dig deeper into the awesome potential of a region in order to increase the participation of anyone doing business and investing in Nigeria and the rest of Africa’s oil and gas upstream, midstream, downstream, power, and services industries. In a statement sent to the AmehNews revealed that the theme of NIPS2020 is; “Widening the Integration Circle: Technology, Knowledge, Sustainability and Partnership” and will seize the momentum of the country’s historic 60 years of independence, to showcase the rich culture of the most diverse country in the Africa along with new oil, gas, and energy technologies, platforms, major contract signing and strategies for growth. Also it was stated that this year will be historic event as expected that the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, will be declared the summit open.

Already, confirmed guests include H.E Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo, Secretary-General, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC); H.E Younghoon David Kim, Chairman, World Energy Council; H.E Mahaman Laouan Gaya, Secretary-General, African Petroleum Producers’ Organisation (APPO); H.E Dr. Sun Xiansheng, Secretary-General, International Energy Forum (IEF) amongst other reputable international stakeholders. Also confirmed to attend are Tony Attah, Managing Director, Nigeria LNG Limited; Osagie Okunbor, Managing Director, SPDC/Chairman, Shell Companies in Nigeria; Michael Sangster-Managing Director & Chief Executive, Total E&P Nigeria Limited (TEPNG); Paul McGrath, Chairman OPTS/Managing Director, ExxonMobil; Simbi K. Wabote, Executive Secretary Nigeria Content Development & Monitoring Board (NCDMB); Mele Kolo Kyari, Group Managing Director, Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NIPS2020 is the Nigeria government’s official petroleum event to fully integrate the finance, automobile, power, construction sector with oil and gas, will address urgent issues in Africa’s development, including the expansion of upstream oil exploration in new areas; balancing the needs of Africa’s oil producing and consuming countries; the role of gas-to-power in lighting Africa; the need to innovate in the power sector, including renewables; and the importance of using oil and gas as a lightning rod to spur growth and economic development.