 Njalo.ng, a FREE classifieds platform that emphasizes safety and convenience to sellers and buyers, has launched operations in Nigeria. Starting operations today, Monday January 06, 2020, Njalo.ng goes live with a promise to empower millions of individuals and businesses in Nigerians with free access to sell anything ranging from smartphones, cars, laptops, clothes, shoes, bags, property, furniture, books/literature, kiddies’ wears, job placement/vacancies, amongst others. Speaking during the media launch, the Co-founder/Chief Technology Officer of Njalo.ng, Mr. Emeka Orjiani described Njalo as the unique meeting room between potential seller and buyer. In his words, “Njalo.ng is here to contribute her quota in the Nigerian digital economy; to create fundamental changes in the Nigerian ecommerce space. “Digital Marketplace is a reality! What used to be sold in the open, regular market can now be sold at the speed of a click. That’s possible with the help of Njalo, a platform where you can sell anything for free. A new dawn is here! So, if you have car(s), phones, laptops, clothes, shoes, bags, property, furniture to sell or even to place job vacancy, then, Njalo is the meeting room between you and the potential buyer. The platform grants users unparalleled, global visibility for whatever it is you want to sell or buy. He said that Njalo.ng also seeks to bring consumer’s favorite market and products closer to them through online trading and help entrepreneurs build brand recognitions beyond the shores of their environment. The Co-Founder also disclosed Njalo.ng’s mission as to connect buyers with verified sellers of genuine products and create opportunities for entrepreneurs to widen their business scope by meeting more customers Sharing idea on how they want to achieve efficient customer-care, the Co-Founder said, “Njalo.ng is ready to ensure that the relationship between sellers and buyers are hassle-free. In a case there are doubts about a seller, the buyer can actually call-in as means to double-check. Advert  “The sellers can also write reviews about their experience with sellers. In all, Njalo.ng will democratize Online Marketplace in Nigeria”, he added. On her part, the Co-founder/Chief Operating Officer, Njalo.ng, Sandra Ani, said: “When it comes to running any successful online marketplace, many people view marketing and customer service as two separate entities. The truth is, marketing and customer service have a harmonious relationship, in which both disciplines work together to drive the growth and success of your business. In fact, your most important marketing tool is customer service, as it touches your customers directly. She explained that Njalo.ng is positioned to grow buyer’s confidence in the Nigerian classifieds sub-sector as their emphasis is to rave-up customer service.