The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) will hold its annual 2019 Market Recap & 2020 Outlook on Monday, 13 January 2020 at the Stock Exchange House, Marina, Lagos.At this annual event, The Chief Executive Officer of The NSE, Mr. Oscar N. Onyema OON, supported by members of the Executive Committee will give a presentation covering: The Nigerian capital market mirrored the performance of the larger economy, which continued its moderate path of recovery.  Despite challenges faced, The NSE continued to execute on the its 2018 – 2021 Corporate Strategy, geared towards (a) enhancing the customer experience across the value chain, (b) reorganization for success, and (c) capitalizing on mission critical strategic initiatives (i.e. Demutualization). In 2019, we continued to enhance our product portfolio, orchestrated ground-breaking investment forums and listed some of Africa’s largest companies. This resilience saw the market capitalization increase by 20.42% to N12.92Tn from N10.72Tn in 2018. Turnover also increased by 389.26% when compared to 2018. Capital raising was dominated by the Federal Government, being responsible for 60% of bond issuances during the period in a bid to finance fiscal and infrastructure deficits.  The presentation will be attended by stakeholders from the stockbroking community, analysts, media and others. The briefing event will also be broadcast live on youtube via this link: http://www.nse.com.ng/nse-outlook/ About NSE The Nigerian Stock Exchange services the largest economy in Africa, and is championing the development of Africa’s financial markets. The Exchange offers listing and trading services, licensing services, market data solutions, ancillary technology services, and more. The Nigerian Stock Exchange continues to evolve to meet the needs of its valued customers, and to achieve the highest level of competitiveness. It is an open, professional and vibrant exchange, and the Entrepreneurial Growth hub of Africa. The Nigerian Stock Exchange aspires to be Africa’s foremost securities exchange, connecting Nigeria, Africa and the world.