The national airline of Cape Verde, Cabo Verde Airlines, has chosen foremost West Africa ground handling operator, NAHCO, to handle its operations in Nigeria.Cabo Verde is a passenger and cargo airline based in Cape Verde. It connects four continents with non-stop flights from its hub at Amílcar Cabral International Airport on Sal Island. The Airline will experience nahco aviance’ unparalleled professional services which has seen the ground handler corner the handling of all European airlines that ply the Nigerian route. Cabo Verde which flies four times into Lagos Airport at the moment will join the list of other African airlines who had partnered nahco aviance for seemless operation in Nigeria. The list includes Kenya Airways, RwandAir, Egypt Air, Ethiopia Airlines, ASKY, Air Peace, Royal Air Maroc and Cronos, to mention but a few. Cabo Verde’s increasing network includes flights to Washington and Boston in USA, Dakar, Senegal, and more than four destinations in Brazil, including Foraleza, Porto Alegre, Recife and Salvador. The airline also flies to Lisbon, Portugal and two ports in Italy: Milan and Rome; and to Paris, France. The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of NAHCO, Mrs. Olatokunbo Fagbemi, expressed delight with the new business pointing out that the Company has upped the ante in ground handling operations in Nigeria. According to her, “We are doing everything right to please our customers who continue to rely on us to excel. Our unmatched investment in human capacity development continues to be the key to our soaring profile.” Fagbemi said her team of dedicated and well-motivated staff will continue to go the extra mile to support the Company’s business partners. The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (nahco aviance) is West Africa’s leading ground handling service provider with presence in all major Nigerian Airports. Founded in December 1979, the Company has since grown into a multi – billion naira company with diversified investments in energy, logistics and development of a free trade zone. This has led to the establishment of Nahco Free Zone (NFZ), Mainland Cargo Options Limited (MCO) and Nahco Energy Power and Infrastructure (EPI). The Company has a vision to be the leading service provider, continuously innovating and reshaping our chosen markets. NAHCO’s core values are: Safety, Integrity, Innovation, Reliability, Respect and Empathy. The Company offers a number of services at more than ten airports across Nigeria. These include: Aircraft Handling Cargo Handling Passenger Handling Crew Transportation Passenger Profiling Training Fueling Services The Company has received various certifications that confirm the integrity of its service. Some of these include ISAGO certification of which the Company was the first ground handling company in West Africa to receive. This has been recertified till June 2021. The Ra3 EU validation of our major stations will expire in July, 2022. These certifications and re-certifications which the Company is able to achieve and retain after rigorous processes has set it up as the benchmark for local aviation service quality.