The Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) PLC has once again confirmed that it is the best when it is comes to aviation ground handling by being chosen to provide ground handling services to Ethiopian Airlines at the MallamAminu Kano International Airport, Kano, Nigeria. L-R: Boma Ukwunna, Executive Director, Cargo Services and Operations, Skyway Aviation Handling Company PLC (SAHCO) ; Basil Agboarumi, Managing Director/CEO, SAHCO; Olaniyi Adigun, Executive Director, Sales and Marketing, SAHCO; Bekele Bayi Oda, Kano Traffic and Sales Manager, Ethiopian Airlines; Alhaji Bashir, OC Apron, FAAN AvSec at Kano Airport at the event. Although SAHCO has been responsible for Cargo and Warehousing Handling services to the Ethiopian Airline, the procurement of State-of-the-art equipment fitted with the latest technology, well trained and customer friendly staff, seamless,safe and speedy service delivery has made them to choose SAHCO as their sole ground handling partner. Like many other International airlines partners, Ethiopian Airlines which is the biggest Airline in Africa will now enjoy full professional ground handling and other related aviation services that SAHCO has always been known to render to her clients, using modern and up to date technologies. With this new contract, Skyway Aviation Handling Company PLC will be responsible for Passenger Handling Services, Ramp and Baggage Handling Services, Cargo and Warehousing services and all aviation related handling services for Ethiopian Airlines. SAHCO will be providing full aviation ground handling service to Ethiopian Airlines, who is the Ethiopian flag carrier, on a passenger flight schedule of four times a week and another schedule for its cargo flight operations at the Kano Airport. With this engagement, passengers are assured of speedy, safe and seamless check-in, boarding, baggage services, ramp and cargo movements as they fly Ethiopian Airlines within the routes. With constant investment in modern aviation ground support equipment; a team of engineers that can build ground support equipment from locally sourced materials which is the first of its kind in Nigeria;a team that is versed in the best of Departure Control systems in the aviation industry, World Tracer and BRS; world class warehousing services; unrivaled customer friendly service delivery in a safe, speedy and efficient culture; SAHCO has been a recipient of many airline providers moving from other handling companies to SAHCO to enjoy the best of services that SAHCO is reputed for being topnotch for. It is worthy to note that SAHCO is also the recipient of numerous awards both locally and internationally due to its quality service delivery in aviation ground handling operations in Nigeria. SAHCO is an RA3 and IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations (ISAGO) certified company. These certifications make the company a preferred gateway to import and export to European countries and the world at large. SAHCO, a Public Limited Liability company is the only aviation ground handling service provider that is present in all commercially operated airports in Nigeria. SAHCO is involved in all the activities that takes place from the time an aircraft touches down on the tarmac at the airport to the time it taxis out to be airborne, to the delight of our customers and benefit of all stakeholders, utilizing state-of-the-art skills, procedure, equipment and facilities with a dedicated workforce.