 The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has attributed the recent increase in COVID-19 infections to some factors such as increased local and international travels as well as business and religious activities with minimal compliance with COVID-19 safety measures by the public. In it’s message for the Yuletide season, NCDC advised Nigerians to avoid mass gatherings during the Christmas festivities or in the alternative imbibe the culture of always wearing facemasks whenever they go outside. In response to the increase in cases of COVID-19 and poor adherence to public health and social measures nationwide, the NCDC said it is escalating its ongoing public communications efforts through a new campaign themed #CelebrateResponsibly. According to the agency, the campaign, which began in February, focuses on measures Nigerians need to take to protect themselves and loved ones during the Christmas and New Year period. ” In the last two weeks, there has been a rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases across the country. On the 17th of December, 1,145 new confirmed cases were recorded. “This increase is as a result of a convergence of circumstances which includes increased local and international travels, business and religious activities with minimal compliance with COVID-19 safety measures by the members of the public,” it said. According to the NCDC, as at December 21, a total of 78,790 cases and 1,227 deaths have been recorded in Nigeria with over 70 million cases reported globally. It said the enforcement of adherence to the safety measures should not only be the sole responsibility of the government, adding that individuals and institutions have a responsibility too and need to play their parts in ensuring adherence to the preventive measures. “Critically, Nigerians are being urged to adhere to recommended measures by NCDC and other public health authorities, as they celebrate Christmas and New Year. Please avoid all non-essential travel within and outside Nigeria to reduce the risk of transmission. The virus that causes COVID-19 is more likely to spread in mass gatherings especially when held indoors. “We advise that people avoid mass gatherings during this time, or hold them outdoors with physical distancing, compulsory use of facemasks and provision of handwashing facilities or hand sanitiser,” it stated. The agency urged Nigerians to take all necessary precautions for a safe and healthy Christmas celebration.