“We hope to stir up the possibility of creating many mega brands that will jump-start the much desired industrialization Nigeria needs for her economic development especially in these times of recession.”  The Chairman, Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria (BJAN), Mr Princewill Ekwujuru in his welcome address at The 8th Annual Brands And Marketing Conference saying the ban on access to foreign exchange for the importation of several available agricultural products including rice, palm oil and dairy products and funding etc.  The 2020 Annual Brand & Marketing Conference of Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria (BJAN) was Held in Lagos over the weekend.  He said special gathering of the best minds in the Nigeria’s marketing communications industry planning to share ideas on topical issues affecting brand Nigeria, as well as honour outstanding players in our industry and the economy, whose thoughts, words and actions have left remarkable footprints on the economy in recent times.  “We all know that the last EndSARS protest and the COVID-19 pandemic that dominated Nigeria’s economic landscape, leaving highly devastating impacts on the economy of that most corporate organisations and individuals are still grappling with..  As a regular culture, Ekwujuru said, we have always gathered together seasoned analysts and informed stakeholders to discuss key issues facing the Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) Industry as well as other issues affecting Brand Nigeria at large.  BJAN Chairman noted that this year, we have decided to shift slightly away from core issues in the world of brands and marketing to an area we hope to stir up the possibility of creating many mega brands that will jump-start the much desired industrialization Nigeria needs for her economic development especially in these times of recession.  Our theme for this year’s conference is Consolidating Nigeria’s Agricultural Revolution: Challenges, Opportunities and Lessons. According to him, “Our focus on Agriculture this year is motivated by the passion to deepen discussions in an area we believe can extensively provide answers to the endless calls for the diversification of our economy and create big brands across all touch-points of its long value chain  He noted that we cannot ignore the remarkable hand work of the Nigerian government through CBN’s current strengthening effort in local production of major agricultural products, including the ban on access to foreign exchange for the importation of several available agricultural products including rice, palm oil and dairy products.  However, Ekwujuru pointed out that we still believe that there is still a very big room for remarkable improvement, especially in terms of real output since there are many other factors aside funding burdening the sector.  He reiterated that we have indeed assembled at this conference a crack team of experts to guide us as we brainstorm on the imperatives in developing a very vibrant and modern agricultural sector, utilizing various techniques in value chain development to build agriculture infrastructure and create big brands that can stand as pillars in Nigeria’s economic development.  “As part of our activities today, we will equally recognize some brands and players in the Nigerian economy that have made remarkable impact in recent times. Our Awardees are indeed the true heroes of our time. To stand out despite the COVID-19 pandemic, a highly disruptive #endsars protest and now an economic recession that has gathered momentum for months is no mean feat. Real heroes are those who rise up to the challenge in times of crisis and conflict, he added.  “All great members of this association will recall that when the current executive took over two Novembers ago, we promptly hit the ground running, consolidating on the solid foundation that has been established by our two previous administrations. You could recall that we crafted and defined the strategic direction and agenda that was to guide us in our goal of creating a respected force of brand writers, developing and strengthening stake holder relationships and maintaining strategic partnerships- all for our members benefit.  “We started with some remarkable strides, organizing training programmes with some corporate organizations and we were poised to unveil many other packages for our members this year when the pandemic, national protests and now recession struck, all in very quick succession.   The BJAN executive appreciate all the sectoral bodies and Industry associations- The Advertisers Practitioners council of Nigeria(APCON), the Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN), the Advertising Agencies Association of Nigeria (AAAN),Outdoor Agency Association of Nigeria (OAAN), PR consultants association of Nigeria (PRCAN), Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN)  and The Experiential Marketers Association of Nigeria (EXMAN). We sincerely appreciate your partnership and support.   “I want to use this time to specially salute our sponsors and donors, some of whom are represented at this conference, for their support and goodwill that we have always enjoyed especially this challenging year. Without your tremendous support and contributions, we would not have been able to achieve the successes we have recorded since we started this annual conference in 2013.  BJAN Chairman noted that this year’s conference is special as it is our first hybrid event with thousands of friends and attendees participating from the comfort of their home and offices.