Junior Chamber International (JCI) Lagos Metropolitan has installed Ayodeji Akinwande as its 2021 Local Oganisation President.2021 Local Oganisation’s President,  Ayodeji Akinwande during his investiture as the President of  Junior Chamber International Metropolitan in Lagos. He took over from Omowunmi Davies-Akinwande whose term has ended. The induction and investiture of the President and the new Board of Directors was hosted by JCI Lagos Metropolitan recently   Lagos. The event tagged; Fostering Collaborative Impact: The Role of Youth in Nation building had presents and past president of JCI, Metro, Industry players, youth groups among others.  In his acceptance speech, Akinwande promised to take the organisation one step higher during his term of office. READ ALSO THIS: JCI Nigeria Calls for Nomination of prospective young Nigerians for ‘Ten Outstanding Young Persons Award’ He said that our change-bearing ideas will never blossom into a tree with many fruitful results in the future without our continuous and conscious wearing of these ideas. Only these will plunges us into the pool of transformational resolution that will better our great organisation and continue to cement our place as the origin of JCI in Nigeria and West Africa.  He noted that the 2020 local organisation year built its ideas on fostering collaborative impact, 2021 with your support will center on promoting transformative solutions.  He called for more support from members as he steer the affairs of the organisation in the New years, said there is nothing as impressive as the right idea in the right moment, with the right motive and the right people to steer it to reality.  He added that the sustensnce of the best practices of service to humanity will dwindle without our collective commitment as an organisation. I duly request this from us all as we swing into full action. READ ALSO THIS: JCI Eko Trains 100 Youths In Social Enterprise Masterclass Earlier in her words, the out going President of the Local organisation, Omowunmu Davies-Akinwande said their activities in 2020 were affected by the outbreak of COVID-19. However, she said through team work they managed to execute a number of projects.  She further said the organisation faced financial constraints, but managed to forge ahead through team work, collaboration, forward thinking and strategic planning with past Presidents, members and senators.  “This year we focused on fostering collaborative impact, without considering our diverse diversities and we pitch our tents on the critical stand of programmes, projects, finance, and membership”, she said.  In his speech, the Marketing Manager of Jumia Nigeria, Kola Osinowo advised members to cultivate the culture of working together stating that you cannot beat your chest with one finger.  He said that no great thing has been done by one individual, there are several people behind it. 