Accident Investigation Bureau Nigeria (AIB-N) has affirmed that the Bureau’s mandate of investigating aircraft accident occurrences and timely release of reports on these occurrences enhance air safety, serves as a catalyst for sustainable development in the air transportation and tourism industry in Nigeria. The Commissioner of the Bureau, Engr. Akin Olateru, who stated this during the National Tourism and Transportation Summit and Expo 2020 in Abuja,as he presented a paper titled ‘Best Practices in Civil Aircraft Accident Prevention and Investigation for Sustainable Development of the Transportation and Tourism Industry’, said an accident or serious incident always erode the public’s confidence in the safety of any transportation system as it can lead to injury or death and can cause environmental and economic disaster. According to the statement endorsed by Tunji Oketunbi, General Public Affairs of Accident Investigation Bureau Nigeria disclosed that the Commissioner who was represented by the AIB Director of Operations, Capt. Dayyabu Daranka, added that independent investigations into causes of accidents and serious incidents in the transportation industry and proffering safety recommendations, which can help to prevent such events from reoccurring, if implemented,can play an important role in improving transport safety and public confidence, thereby, guaranteeing sustainable development of both industries that depend upon each other for the execution of the services they render. READ ALSO THIS: AIB commissioner seeks synergy between tourism, air transport Olateru stated that air transport is part of a broader travel and tourism sector and according to International Air Transport Association (IATA) 2020 report, prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Nigeria air transport and tourism industries contributed to US$ 1.7 billion into the economy and about 241,000 direct and indirect jobs. He added that according to the world Bank Group, the sector, which is widely recognized as world largest industry, is an important enabler to achieving economic growth and development. “Air transport in addition to facilitating integration into global economy and provide vital connectivity on a national, regional and international scale, also helps to generate trade, promote tourism and create job opportunities as well,” he said. The AIB Commissioner also disclosed that the draft bill for the establishment of an independent multi-modal transportation safety investigation system, the Nigeria Safety Investigation Bureau (NSIB), has passed the second reading at the National Assembly. READ ALSO THIS: AIB Releases Preliminary Report on Lagos Helicopter Crash show a valid certificate of airworthiness The bill, he said, seeks to expand the scope of accidents and serious incidents investigation to cover occurrences that occur in the air, marine and rail transport. Olateru stressed that the experience garnered over the years in aircraft accident investigation will be applied to investigating accident occurrences of the other two modes of transportation. “This would go a long way in restoring the confidence of the traveling public in the transportation industry in Nigeria,” he said.