Seplat Petroleum Development Company has revealed this in 2019 Sustainability Report, Delivering Shared Value, highlights the impact we made on Social, Economic, Governance and Environmental issues the during the year. The report, which is our 9 edition, explores our sustainability goals, strategies, challenges, progress and performance within our corporate citizenship space.  The management of Seplat has spent a total sum of $66.69 million on 5 Pillar Framework For Delivering Shared Value or Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) between 2010 and 2019.  According to the report saying Issues of accountability and transparency have remained critical and foundational to the way we do business. The sustainability reporting channel gives us a good platform to invite interested readers and other stakeholders to check out how we walk our talk through such annual disclosures. We have followed our established tradition of complete and transparent disclosure of the impact of our operations on multiple stakeholder groups in line with internationally acclaimed sustainability reporting guidelines. The report discloses our key strategic corporate priorities, the actions taken during the reporting cycle and the outcomes.   Seplat Company CSR between 2010 and 2019 which was tagged as a “Seplat Petroleum Development Company – 2019 Sustainability Report,” made available on the Nigeria Stock Exchange platform. The Company in the statement noted that Seplat Petroleum had spent the aforementioned sum on five key areas – Education, Healthcare, Economic Empowerment, Infrastructure Development, and Environmental Stewardship. The breakdown of the sum spent through CSR across the aforementioned areas is as follows: Education: Seplat petroleum in 2019 spent well over N11.9 million as prize money to winning schools and students in 201 university scholarships and bankrolled over 860 schools in the PEARL QUIZ Competition.  Healthcare: In the last one year, the company performed well over 615 cataract eye surgeries, distributed 5,400 reading glasses, treated 15,690 patients with eye diseases and impacted 3,500 pregnant women.  Economic empowerment: Seplat trained over 133 youths on various skills, engaged community vendors and built/renovated market stalls to encourage women in commerce.  Infrastructure Development: Seplat Petroleum had invested in 55 community development projects in 2019, with 31 projects completed and 24 projects ongoing.  Environmental stewardship: The firm developed a new HSE policy for the company to reflect this focus. It also worked on initiatives aimed at reducing flaring and GHG emissions. In above aforementioned 5 areas executed over ten years by the Company through its CSR, only in education that amount spent was mentioned while the Company hammered on ‘Issues of accountability and transparency have remained critical and foundational to the way we do businesses’ but failed to mention the amount of money spent on others four areas. Where is Issues of accountability and transparency……? The Management revealed that CSR provides an avenue for the firm to compensate the society for the privilege and opportunity it was provide with. It is an essential inequality tool aimed at improving the social welfare of the people, boosting the brand’s reputation and ensuring the overall maximization of pleasure and benefit for the people.