Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni, Director-General Of The Nigerian Association Of Chambers Of Commerce, Industry, Mines And Agriculture (NACCIMA) during his remarks says Implicitly, our SMEs which are the private sector operators are the bedrock of our economy and we must do all we can to support them, not just to survive but flourish as we consider strategic options out of recession hopefully by first quarter of 2021  NACCIMA, Director-General, Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni, stated this at The Commerce and Industry Correspondents Association Of Nigeria (CICAN) Workshop On Saturday, December 12, 2020 at the NACCIMA House, Ikeja, Lagos.  He further noted that policies must be implemented to improve ease of doing business and reducing the cost of doing business, especially for SMEs which makes about 48% to our national GDP and provides about 84% employment according to various studies.  Implicitly, our SMEs which are the private sector operators are the bedrock of our economy and we must do all we can to support them, not just to survive but flourish as we consider strategic options out of recession hopefully by first quarter of 2021  I applaud the CICAN Executive led by the National Chairman, Mr. Charles Okonji, for organizing this workshop to discuss the “Effects of COVID-19 on the Real Sector and Financing for SMEs”. This is a clear reflection of the seriousness with which CICAN takes its role as the fourth-Estate of the realm and also carries out its role to disseminate instructive and relevant information to aid advocacy, business development and trade promotion in the commercial and industrial sectors of the economy.  DG added that it is no longer news that Nigeria is in a state of economic recession, its second recession in the last four years.  And the Covid-19 Pandemics and EndSars protest significantly triggered this recession. According to the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics, he said “the growth rate of National Output stood at negative 3.62% as at the third quarter of 2020. The inflation rate stood at 14.23% as at October 2020. The Unemployment Report of the 2nd Quarter, 2020, showed that 21.8million Nigerians were unemployed, out of a Labour Force of 80.2million Nigerians. To compound these socioeconomic issues, the COVID-19 pandemic that has swept around the globe for a greater part of this year has brought with it a health, as well as, an economic crisis. Nigeria has experienced over sixty (60) thousand infections, with over one (1) thousand deceased, making the deficiencies of our health sector even more apparent, and putting our readiness to combat a global pandemic into question.  “As an economy, we are yet again facing the consequences of over-dependence on Crude Oil revenues. This is a reminder that we must really work hard to diversify our economy.  We face dwindling foreign exchange reserves, increasing domestic and foreign debt, and difficulties in doing business brought about largely by an infrastructure deficit in the power and transportation sectors.  He noted that as these unfortunate events continue to bring about the loss of jobs and loss of business, the private sector must once again adapt and evolve for its survival. As has been stated on multiple occasions, the official position of NACCIMA is that government must resist the urge to implement policies that negatively impact the productive and consumption capacity of the private sector; the stimulus packages enunciated in the Economic Sustainability Plan must be promptly and efficiently disbursed for the desired impact in various sectors of the economy.  He acknowledged that opportunities are also now opening up as we get ready for the operationalization of the African Continental Free Trade Area AfCFTA in January 2021.  We must also reposition the Nigerian economy especially the manufacturing sector by improving infrastructure such as power, roads, rail and ensure efficient functioning of our Ports, he added. Ambassador pointed out that we must encourage Private Sector operators to key into the AfCFTA essentially because they will be the key players under the Agreement. And finally, the issues of security of lives and livelihood must be on top of the agenda and the various challenges across the country which manifests in various ways must be effectively tackled and definitively resolved, he stated.  As the Director-General of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), I assure you that our Association will continue to work with CICAN to ensure the sustainable economic growth and development of our country, Nigeria.    