 The Lagos State and Ogun State governments have rebuffed pressures from churches to relax restrictions introduced to curb the spread of COVID-19 infections so they could hold crossover vigils today to usher in the New Year. The two states, with a high concentration of headquarters of churches in the country, insisted that the 12am-4am curfew introduced by the federal government, as part of measures to combat COVID-19 remains in place. They warned that dire consequences await individuals and groups that violate the regulations. The Ondo State government, which on Tuesday had warned churches against holding any crossover service in the state today, also reiterated its warning while assuring the clergy that its decision was not to undermine Christianity, but to safeguard public health. However, Oyo State has bowed to pressure from the church as the government yesterday relaxed the curfew to allow for the holding of crossover services. Despite warnings by the federal and state governments on the danger of allowing events that could attract large crowds, as part of measures to tackle the resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic, some religious leaders have kicked against any attempt to stop the traditional crossover services to usher in the New Year. Some of them have vowed to go ahead with their programmes notwithstanding the caution from the government. However, in compliance with the government’s directives, some of the major churches in Ogun and Lagos States, such as The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM) and Living Faith Church Worldwide, aka Winners’ Chapel, have adjusted their programmes to conform to the directive. Already, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has urged churches to comply with all government regulations to combat the spread of COVID-19 while conducting their crossover services. CAN, against the backdrop of the controversy between churches and the association on the duration of crossover vigil, had on Tuesday directed its members to end their services by 11pm. CAN President, Rev Samson Ayokunle, in a statement, had said the advice was necessary to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection. Amid the defiance of some churches to hold the crossover services today, the Lagos State Government yesterday urged residents to comply with all restrictions imposed by the authorities to curb the spread of the pandemic. It said Lagosians who violated the 12a.m. to 4a.m. curfew imposed by the federal government and other protocols would face the wrath of the law. The government urged all churches in the state to respect the curfew and avoid physical crossover services and large gatherings today. The state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, said: “If you flout any of these rules, you can be fined. You will be taken to court and the magistrate will decide on the sanction. “But it is not just about punishing people. People are being advised to take responsibility. The regulations were rolled out as an advisory and people have been obeying while people who have disobeyed have faced the consequences.” Omotosho, in a statement, also said the government’s seeming hardline position on not allowing crossover vigils was informed by the rising cases of COVID-19, which is in its second wave and Lagos State still being an epicentre. “The role of religious organisations in fighting the pandemic is well noted. “The Christian Association of Nigeria has issued a statement on how churches should conduct their watchnight services. “The Sanwo-Olu administration has maintained a harmonious relationship with religious organisations and has confidence in the ability of their leaders to ensure compliance with COVID-19 protocols amid the clamour for crossover services. “With what we have been seeing, I don’t think churches will flout the protocols. CAN (Christian Association of Nigeria) is in agreement with the government. COVID-19 cases are going up and everybody is worried. Some of the giant churches have also announced that they won’t be holding physical crossover services. “The Lagos State Government has also told them that there is a curfew by midnight to 4am imposed by the federal government. Many of the churches have been adjusting their programmes. Churches are well-organised and we believe they will comply,” he added. The Director-General of the Lagos State Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola, also said the commission would be working with the police to enforce all restrictions, especially during the New Year . According to him, the commission will not wait till the New Year’s eve to do its job. Ogun Bans Crossover Services The Ogun State government has banned crossover services to usher in the New Year in all worship centres across the state. According to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Kunle Somorin, the directives were issued after a meeting between the state government and religious leaders from the League of Imams and the CAN as well as community leaders as part of the measures and guidelines to safeguard public health as the state prepares for a second wave of the pandemic. He quoted the governor as directing that all bars, nightclubs, pubs and event centres, recreational centres in the state be closed indefinitely. The governor directed that all markets are to open strictly between 8a.m. and 4p.m. while maintaining social distancing and observing all COVID-19 protocols, including the use of face mask, provision of hand sanitisers, and/or hand-washing equipment at every strategic point within their malls, shops and business premises. The Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, also mandated all worship centres not to exceed 50 per cent of their capacity. “In order to stem the spread of the second wave of the disease, Governor Abiodun advised that “there should be no gatherings of more than 50 people at any event or ceremonies, such as conferences, congresses, office events, concerts, seminars, sporting activities, cross-over nights, end of year parties, weddings, naming, birthdays, anniversaries, street carnivals, etc until further notice”. While urging citizens to celebrate in moderation, Abiodun said they should take personal responsibilities for their safety and stay within their residences and not embark on travels within and outside the state to ensure they neither transmit nor contract the virus. “For religious centres, the League of Imams and the Christian leaders adopted the earlier positions taken in the wake of COVID-19 earlier in the year such as all worship activities must be observed by not more than 50 per cent of capacity. “All congregants must wear their face masks appropriately (that is, No facemask, No entry)” “There should be reliable sources of running water. “Worship centres should be adequately cleaned and disinfected before and after services. “There should be provision of alcohol-based sanitiser, which must be used before and at intervals of every 20 minutes as well as after service. “Worship centres should provide adequate toilet facilities with water. It is paramount for Muslims to perform ablution at home and go to mosque with their personal praying mats. “The use of airconditioners should be discouraged while worship centres should be well ventilated with the use of fans. “There should not be any handshake/hugs by worshippers,” the governor said. He added that government will not hesitate to impose severe sanctions, including, but not limited to lockdown, on any worship centre that fails to comply with the guidelines. “No social gathering should exceed 200 people while two metres social distancing must be observed in such gatherings,” he added. And in compliance with CAN directive, the state chapter of the association has directed all churches to close crossover service by 11 pm. Ban on Crossover Vigil Not Anti-Christian, Says Ondo The Ondo State Inter-ministerial Committee on COVID-19 has said the decision of the government to ban crossover vigil is not about religion or targeted at Christianity. The committee said the decision was aimed at strengthening public safety and to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the state. The Chairman of the committee, Prof. Adesegun Fatusi, during an interactive meeting with religious leaders and stakeholders in Akure, the state capital yesterday, stated that the meeting was part of the committee’s strategies to strengthen the fight against COVID-19 and to better educate leaders on the need to play an exemplary role in the fight against the virus. Fatusi, while commending some religious leaders and other stakeholders who have supported the government in its efforts at mitigating the spread of the disease, appealed to the church to remain an agent of change. According to him, there is a need for every stakeholder, including church leaders, to key into the fight against COVID-19. He added that the government will continue to carry out advocacy and sensitisation programmes to re-educate the people about the pandemic and its dangers. “We are talking about a matter of life and death. People have talked about maintaining protocols in the markets and other places, but focus on churches and mosques is because by their designs, they spread COVID-19 more than open places. “It is an enclosed place and people are more active therein. The likelihood of higher infection is very prominent. The decision to cancel crossover vigil is not about churches, you will recall that the government cancelled Muslims gathering too, it is about subsisting order for prevention of outbreak of infection and reducing further spread of COVID-19,” he said. He explained that the government is not biased against any religion but concerned about the safety of its citizens. He urged the religious leaders to cooperate with the government. Responding, the Ondo State Chairman of CAN, Rev. Ayo Oladapo, called on the government to permit churches to celebrate the crossover vigil, stressing that churches have been educating the people on preventive measures against the pandemic. He said CAN as a law-abiding organisation would not work against the directive of the government. He also requested for a stronger working relationship between the church and the government. Fatusi, who admonished the leaders to obey the government’s directive banning the vigil, promised to convey their appeal for lifting the ban to the governor for further directive.