 The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association says it is not opposed to the plan of the government to invest pension funds in infrastructure as long as it will be done within the ambit of the law. The Director-General, NECA, Dr Timothy Olawale, in a statement on Monday, warned that only a maximum of N2.4tn could be invested by PFAs in infrastructure funds and bonds out of a total N12.05tn pension assets as of October 2020. According to him, the investment of N17tn out of the pension funds as widely speculated was not acceptable. He said, “We have no reason to believe that the relevant extant laws: Pension Reform Act 2004 and 2014 and the Investment Regulations won’t be adhered to by the PFAs and PENCOM, the regulatory body. “As long as any decision to invest part of the Pension Fund Assets is strictly based on the provisions of the PRA 2014 and existing regulations of investment, which guarantees safety, transparency, fair valuation and thus removing all ambiguity, there won’t be any need for concern at all.” The DG said the issue of investment and borrowing from the Pension Fund Asset had remained contentious and vexatious to many stakeholders. He noted that it was obvious that the nation needed huge investment to address current infrastructure deficit but the contention remained how to fund the deficit. “While Sections 85-91 of the Pension Reform Act 2014 stipulated the classes of assets that Pension funds should be invested in with over-ridding provisions for the funds’ safety, past and present alleged misapplication of loans by government has created deep mistrust in the minds of citizens and eroded the confidence in government,” he added. Explaining the provisions of the Pension Reform Act, 2014, Olawale said, “We are not unaware that part of the watertight investment regulations issued by PenCom to Pension Fund Administrators stipulated that investment of pension assets for infrastructure development must be through infrastructure bonds.” He added that employers of labour in Nigeria had implicit confidence in PENCOM, especially now that the confidence of contributors and stakeholders had been reinforced with the setting up and inauguration of the governing board for oversight responsibilities.