The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) was adjudged as the best parastatal in the country under the leadership of the Corporation, the outgoing MD of NDIC whose tenure ends in December. At the event in Abuja, Umaru Ibrahim was praised by colleagues, friends and well-wishers for his leadership qualities and his great achievements which include overseeing the Corporation’s critical failure resolution interventions in the banking sector that saved thousands of depositors from the loss of their funds to navigating the Corporation’s growth to take its prestigious position on the international scene as the Chair of the African Regional Committee of the International Association of Deposit Insurers (IADI).  Dr. Isa-Dutse said during a special valedictory luncheon organised by the Alumni Association of the National Institute (AANI) in honour of managing director’s tenure, the Corporation was outstanding in the implementation of its mandate towards contributing to the stability of the financial system. He recalled that during his time as Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, the NDIC remained the most compliant in terms of Corporate Governance and excellence in service delivery as opposed to other agencies that were constantly grappling with numerous internal disputes and challenges.  According to the press statement endorsed by Bashir A. Nuhu, Director, Communication & Public Affairs Department of the corporation saying The AANI National President, former Inspector General of Police M. D. Abubakar (rtd) who described the NDIC boss as a senior brother and a true Nigerian, said Umaru Ibrahim’s leadership qualities of discipline, dedication and passion towards excellence has translated to significant contributions to the Nation’s development. He added that the Association singled out the MD/CE NDIC to recognise his contributions to AANI and celebrate his achievements and legacy during his thirty-one years of service in the Corporation and especially during the last ten years as the MD/CE of the NDIC. The AANI Monitor General, SEC 23 Engr. Mohammed Gambo Umar who spoke on behalf of Ibrahim’s former course mates from the SEC 23/2001 of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, described him as a “guru” during his time at the Institute adding that his intelligence, attention to detail and sense of determination were all the qualities that resulted in his successful tenure at the helm of affairs at the NDIC.  The event featured a lecture on the environmental and socio-economic implication of the depletion of the Lake Chad Basin to the nation delivered by the Director of Studies of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Prof. Ibrahim Lawal Bashir.  Prof Bashir stressed the importance of patriotic leadership and the implementation of strategic developmental plans that would address the challenges of poverty and conflict affecting the region. He added that the outgoing MD/CE of NDIC stands as a shining example of the kind of leadership that should be imbibed to move the nation forward towards a better future.  He enjoined members of AANI as well as others in positions of influence not to relent in contributing their wealth of knowledge and experience to support the government in addressing the nation’s challenges.  In his response, the outgoing NDIC MD/CE Umaru Ibrahim who joined the corporation  in May 1989 expressed his appreciation for the honour bestowed on him by AANI. He thanked the Almighty God for seeing him through his career and appreciated the support of the entire Board, management and staff of the Corporation. He said as his tenure as MD of the NDIC comes to an end, he would fondly carry with him the memories of camaraderie, friendship and love he experienced during his career and expressed his commitment towards continuing to live by the tenets of dedication, discipline, hard work, and excellence in service to the community and the nation at large.  The outgoing managing director, Ibrahim said as his tenure as MD of the NDIC comes to an end but did not mentioned who will replace him as the Executive Officer of the Corporation going forward. According to an opinion, why important Corporation or Parastatal like NDIC has no succession planed? Opinion went further to say the person who supposed to takes over should have be there to learn one thing or others from the outgoing person. While others opinion are saying is too early to take about who will replace the outgoing MD and is only All Progressives Congress (APC) as ruling party that can made such appointment either based on expert or as the case of Adamu Ciroma who was a graduate of history, a season politician and Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria? AmehNews recall that Senate president then said in confirmation of the reappointment as the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of NDIC in a letter to former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki was quoted saying the reappointment of Mr. Ibrahim was in accordance with Section 5 Subsection 4 and Section 8 Subsection 3 of the NDIC Act. Will President Buhari’s leadership who upholds Nigeria constitution and others like the federal character commission principles appoint capable individual from non-Hausa speaking area of the country. 