According to adage, ‘good men do always follow them’ this is the case of Ms Caroline Oghuma, for close to two decades, she has been instrumental in shaping the reputation of organizations, bridging the gap between businesses and communities through communications and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), effectively managing stakeholders in different industries and managing crisis during turbulent times. While presenting the Award, Chairman, BJAN, Mr Princewill Ekwujuru, at the just concluded BJAN 8th Brands and Marketing conference held in Lagos said Ms Caroline Oghuma as a self professed ‘people person’ has contributed to deepening convivial relationships between the organization and its various stakeholders in integrated marketing communications space.   Ekwujuru added that Coroline as Executive Head, Corporate Affairs of MultiCHoice Nigeria has contributed to increased publicity for the company to some realistically points.  She has also sustained decreased negative publicity for the MultiCHoice Nigeria as a brand by instituting ongoing product and brand education for the media as well as launched customer engagement for and attained increased customer understanding of the MultiChoice’ self-help and electronic payment platforms.   The said Award was received by Mr Ukpongote Esu, Internal Communications Executive of the Company and Mr Timothy Okwu on behalf of the Winner, Ms Caroline Oghuma.   The award was presented to the winner at Brand Journalists’ Association of Nigeria’s (BJAN) 2020 brands and marketing conference on November 27th.  Recently during the COVID-19 pandemic as a Leading Pay-TV service provider, MultiChoice Nigeria has donated 500 face masks to Sports Writers’ Association of Nigeria (SWAN), Lagos State Chapter in order for members of the association to stay safe.  During the presentation at the Lagos SWAN Secretariat, Ms Oghuma, said that “the gesture was one of the efforts to sustain symbiotic relationship with their partners. She added that this is in appreciation and also to ensure that members protect themselves and stay safe since they still move around in spite of the pandemic that is still much around.”  Ms Oghuma further gave reasons behind the initiative, saying “Aside government’s efforts in combating the pandemic, we thought part of our responsibilities as a private sector was to get involved in saving lives.  “We thought that the little we could do was to invest in protective gears, nose masks for frontline ‘warriors’.  “You know those who stand the gap for us on a day to day basis, the media, most especially have been our partners and we would continue to be partners.  Brief About: Caroline Oghuma is skilled in: Corporate Communications, Internal Communications, Public Relations, Marketing Strategy, Media Relations, Business Strategy, Social Media Marketing, Marketing Communications, Brand Management, Corporate Social Responsibility, Management, Content Development, Strategy, Social Networking, Marketing etc