As part of its efforts to help revive the comatose  Small and Medium  Enterprise  ( SMEs) and the country’s real sector at large, the Commerce  and Industry Correspondents Association of Nigeria ( CICAN is set to host it’s 2020 edition of its annual workshop in Lagos.  The workshop theme is “Effects of COVID-19 on the real Sector/ SMEs Financing on December 12, 2020.  This fact is contained in CICAN’s media statement signed by the event’s Organising Chairman, Johnmark UKoko and the Secretary Mrs Ebere Nworji and made available to the media recently in Lagos.  The statement said among the important personalities expected to grace the event include the Hon Minister Of Industry, Otunba Adeniyi  Adebayo,  the Managing Director / CEO of Nigeria Investment Council  Olusegun Awolowo, the President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria ( MAN), Engr Munsur Ahmed and others Captains of Industry.  The statement reads that the Director General of National Association of Chambers of Commerce,  Industry, Mines and Agriculture ( NACCIMA) Amb Ayola  Olukanni and the President of National Association of Small and Enterprises (NASME),:Prince Degun Agbode and other invited Captains of Industry.  The statement added that the Managing Director of Bank of Industry (BOI), Viluton Energy Limited CEO,  Ugonwa Okoli and  other Captains at Industry  are also expected.  According to the statement, despite the fact SMEs is the engine of growth of Nigeria’s economy employing many millions of the youths, the authorities have not done much to tackle the various challenges confronting them. The statement noted that forum will enable the media professionals reporting the sector opportunity to meet the Captains of Industry and brainstorm to tackle the challenges facing the sector.  The statement indicated that the Banks’ CEO who will be present at the event will be given opportunity to tell their stories on their financing efforts so far and what they will do in the year 2021.  The commique of the workshop will be given wide publicity to enable the government known about their challenges and threats.  According to the CICAN’ statement saying the media will do all within their power to support the SMEs sector.  The statement disclosed that CICAN was established about three decades ago by NACCIMA to adequately report the real sector of Nigerian’s economy.