…. the Association for the pivotal role that each of them has played in the success of the Association  The Registrar/Chief Executive of APCON, Dr Olalekan Fadolapo disclosed this during his Goodwill Message to The 2020 Annual Brand & Marketing Conference Of BJAN saying the Brand Journalists’ Association of Nigeria, BJAN, has made a tremendous impact in the Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) Industry. The 2020 Annual Brand & Marketing Conference Of BJAN was held in Lagos over the weekend.  “BJAN is unique. Unique in always being there for us in good and bad times. Unique in going far beyond the ordinary in terms of being committed to excellent coverage and good reportage. He further stated that indeed, BJAN has developed open and trusted relationships based on mutual respect and common interests in our Industry.  For us at APCON, Dr Fadolapo, going by the theme for this year’s conference “Consolidating Nigeria’s Agricultural Revolution: Challenges, Opportunities and Lessons”, we hope that the event will engineer a transformative bridge that can seal the gap between issues of possibilities and actualisation, thereby strengthening the Agricultural sector which can become the bedrock of a thriving economy.  I would also like to congratulate BJAN for its many achievements over the years. According to him both the past Chairmen of BJAN and of course the incumbent Chairman and all members of the Association for the pivotal role that each of them has played in the success of the Association.  The APCON Registrar who was represented by Head Corporate Communications of APCON, Comfort Maryam said “Let me take this opportunity to reiterate and assure everyone here of my commitment to ensure that the Regulatory mandate of APCON is maintained and strengthened during my tenure. I therefore, call on the Media as gatekeepers in our quest for responsible advertising, to adhere to Nigerian Code of Advertising Practice as well as best global practices and avoid anything and everything that will bring to question the confidence reposed in them.  Over the years, Dr Fadolapo said APCON and BJAN have forged a close and solid partnership which has continued to grow. I wish to further consolidate our working relations and this partnership during my tenure, he added. 