The December 2020 Purchase Managers Index (PMI) a survey that was conducted by the Statistics Department of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) during the period December 7-11, 2020 saying Manufacturing’s PMI in the month of December stood at 49.6 index points, indicating a contraction from the expansionary level recorded in the month of November 2020.  The purchasing and supply executives of manufacturing and non-manufacturing organizations in all 36 states in Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has affirmed manufacturing December 2020 activities recorded in the PMI for December 2020 nevertheless showed suppliers’ delivery time was faster, new orders and production level increased while employment level and raw materials inventories contracted.   The report further indicated that of the 14 subsectors surveyed by the CBN, only 4 subsectors reported expansion (above 50% threshold) in the review month in the following order: Transportation equipment, Nonmetallic mineral products, Paper products and Food, beverage & tobacco products. Textile, apparel, leather & footwear subsector remained stationary while the remaining 9 subsectors reported contractions in the following order: Primary metal, Petroleum & coal products; Cement, Electrical equipment, Fabricated metal products, Printing & related support activities, Plastics & rubber products; Chemical & pharmaceutical products and Furniture & related products.   The report showed the breakdown as follows:  Production Level index in the month of December 2020 for the manufacturing sector stood at 51.6 points, indicating expansion for two consecutive months. Of the 14 subsectors surveyed, only 6 subsectors recorded increased production level, 4 subsectors reported stationary level of production, while 4 subsectors recorded declines in production in December 2020.   According to the report excerpted from CBN’s website saying The new orders index level expanded for the third consecutive months in the month of December. The index stood at 50.2 points in December 2020. Five subsectors reported expansion in new orders, 2 subsectors remained stationary while the remaining 7 recorded contraction in the review month.   Also, the Supplier Delivery Time index for the manufacturing stood at 51.2 points in December 2020, this indicates that supplier delivery time was faster for the eighth consecutive months. Eight of the 14 subsectors recorded improved suppliers’ delivery time, 3 subsectors remained stationary, while 3 subsectors recorded slower delivery time.  While the Employment Level Index in the manufacturing sector for December 2020 stood at 46.3 points, indicating contraction in employment level for the ninth consecutive months. According to the CBNPMI report, of the 14 subsectors surveyed, only transportation equipment subsector recorded growth in employment level. Four subsectors recorded stationary employment level while the remaining nine subsectors recorded lower employment level in the review month.   Raw material Inventories Index activities in the manufacturing sector contracted for the ninth consecutive months in December 2020. At 46.9 points, the index declined in the review month. Four of the 14 subsectors recorded growth in inventories, 2 subsectors remained stationary while the remaining 8 subsectors recorded lower raw material inventories in the review month.   Non-Manufacturing PMI Report for the non-manufacturing sector stood at 45.7 points in December 2020, indicating contraction in Non-manufacturing PMI for the ninth consecutive months. Of the 17 surveyed sub-sectors, 5 subsectors reported growth in the following order: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Water supply, sewage & waste management; Electricity, gas, steam & air conditioning supply; Educational services and Professional, scientific & technical services. Twelve subsectors reported declines in the following order: Management of companies; Utilities; Transportation & warehousing; Real estate rental & leasing; Construction; Finance & insurance; Agriculture; Wholesale/Retail trade; Information & communication; Repair, Maintenance/Washing Of Motor Vehicles…; Health care & social assistance and Accommodation & food services.  Business Activity Index in manufacturing sector stood at 46.9 points, by this the report has disclosed that the business activity index for the non-manufacturing sector contracted from the expansionary level recorded in the month of November 2020. Six out of the 17 subsectors reported expansion in business activities (above 50% threshold). Information & communication subsector reported stationary level of business activities while the remaining 10 subsectors recorded contraction in business activity in the review month.   At 45.1 points, the new orders index has declined for the ninth consecutive months in December 2020. Four of the 17 subsectors reported growth in new order (above 50% threshold), 2 subsectors reported stationary levels, while the remaining 11 subsectors recorded decline in new orders in the review month .  “The employment level Index for the non-manufacturing sector in the month of December 2020 stood at 45.1 points, indicating contraction in employment level for the ninth consecutive months. Only Electricity, gas, steam & air conditioning supply subsector reported growth in employment level (above 50% 5 threshold), 2 subsectors reported stationary level, while the remaining 14 subsectors recorded decline in new orders in the review month   “At 45.7 points, non-manufacturing inventory index declined for the ninth consecutive months. This indicates reduced inventories in the review period. Two subsectors reported growth in inventory, while 4 subsectors recorded stationary level and the remaining 11 subsectors recorded decline in inventories in the review period