*** Tasks FG, stakeholders on building capacity for teeming youths *** Developed Distribution Power enhancement penal In supporting the youths empowerment programme of the Federal Government, the MOMAS Electricity Meters Manufacturing Company (MEMMCOL), has successful trained 300 young graduates on meter installation and maintenance to be able to fit into the ongoing massive deployment of government 6 million meters to consumer across the country. Dignitaries at the official graduating ceremony of the young graduates who were picked across the six geo-political zone of the country commended MOMAS for offering to train over 300 unemployed youths on effective electricity metering programme scheme to complement Federal Government’s effort on massive roll out of metering into the power sector. Mr Babagana Mohammed, President, the Nigerian Society of Engineers lauded Momas for impacting effectively on the younger generation, adding the metering school is the first of its kind world-class training school in Nigeria to provide requisite training and practical exposure to eligible candidates in the areas of Meter Installation, Inspection as well as Repair & Maintenance. Momhamed said that producing meters locally will go along way to reduce capital flight. He said that the initiative will also help government in saving monies, since we have companies that can produce such goods imported into the country. According to him, capital flight can impose a severe burden on nit not buoyant nations since the lack of capital impedes economic growth and may lead to lower living standards. “Paradoxically, the most open economies are the least vulnerable to capital flight, since transparency and openness improve investors’ confidence in the long-term prospects for such economies. Mohammed described the school as a novel and a unique innovation to that would contribute immensely to training and capacity building for professionals in the metering sector. “I really want to salute the courage of the leadership and management of MEMMCOL for setting up this school, because it is only the training and re-training of those who would manage and maintain any facility or infrastructure that underpins the hidden strength of the facility and guarantees that it delivers optimum value,” MSE president said. The Executive Director of Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), Mr Sunday Oduntan, commanded MOMAS for taken a bull step in developing technology that will enhanced power sector. Oduntan, however, said that the company which is one of the remarkable local metwe manufacturing in the country, has the capacity to produce adequate electricity meters for Nigerians. According to him, every Disco supported MOMAS company towards patronage, adding that it is a shared responsibility which muat go around the local meter manufacturing companies. ” MOMAS has the largest number of meter which all DisCos are aware of zeal of Engr Balogun commitment to the sectie which are known facts. ” It time for everyone to know that qe are one indivisible Nigerians, and we must think positively,” Oduntan said. The ANED spokesman advised that there is need for collaboration, we should not allow division in the power sector, adding DisCos is currently meeting with government and regulators on how to improve efficiency in the distribution sub sector. ” Time has changed, now, everybody must be on ground to lift the sector. Mr Kunle Kola Olubiyo, President, Nigeria Consumer Protection Network Group, lauded Federal Government’s initiative towards bridging metering gaps in the country. Olubiyi said MOMAS has demonstrated professionalism in the sector, adding that there is need to abolish quackery in the sector. According to him, We should have constitutive engagement with our teeming youths in Nigeria on ways they can be useful to the nation. ” Government should be commended for ensuring that local companies are patronised through patronising them locally. ” We urged the bigger companies to follow suit to develop capacity and empower indigenous players in-country,” he said. The best graduating student, Mohammed Sanni commended MOMAS management for introducing an in depth assessment training in their curriculum, which also integrated the students to the current trends in the sector. Sanni said the company has exposed the trainees to the integrity of the sector and also thought them the ethics of the profession. According to him, We are thought in both practical and theoretical aspects of the power sector value chain. ” I commended Federal Government on this initiative of mass metering of consumers which gave us the opportunity to be here on free training programme for two weeks,” he added. In remarks, Engr Kola Balogun, Executive Chairman, MOMAS commended Federal Government’s decision towards metering consumers to bridged metering gaps, adding that his support to train young Nigerians was borne outbof his commitment to the development of the sector and enhancement of capacity building to our teeming youths. Balogun said it became necessary to take our teeming youths out of the street and building sustainable human capacity development, adding that 300 unemployed youths had been certified today on meter installation and maintenance free of charge as part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility(CSR) to complement government’s effort on massive roll out of metering into the country According tonhim, I welcome you all to our 25th year’s anniversary and graduation ceremony of our youth empowerment course MIC101. “Looking back it has been a long journey up until this day that we mark our silver jubilee. The journey hasn’t been a smooth ride but with the grace of God the almighty we conquered all hurdles. MOMAS was conceives yesterday from a one man dream and today it transformed in to not just a reality but one that is beneficial to every one of us and the entire nation. “Gathering or annexing technology is not a walk in the park but today we are proud to say we brought it home, an passing the knowledge to ensure capability development as the globe evolve. “Today we celebrate our years of engineering excellence, resilience and determination to ensure that we are committed to our vision on which premise we have empowered these youth today. In no doubt the MOMAS metering school will complement the federal government initiative on mass metering rollout to consumers nationwide,” he said. Balogun said: ” Bridging the gap of six million meter installations will definitely require enormous skilled man power, hence a call for us to take maximum advantage of this initiative to reduce unemployment rate and social vices caused by youth in our environs. ” I challenge us to look within our streets and communities and change a life by empowering them with the right skills sets to change their life and in the long run reduce the threats out there of which we have equipped these young men today as they will be certified meter installers. “Going by our day to day activities we have studied, dissected and developed solutions to address our peculiar nature. “One of which we will launch today the power enhancement panel to all distribution companies. “This to upgrade thier various substations across the country to deliver 24/7 power to the premium consumers taking advantage of the SILT s(Service Improvement Level Tariff) concept of NERC, a unique way of addressing our challenges in our own way,” Balogun added.  He said “This I will emphasize and urge all stakeholders in power and other sectors of the economy to take unemployment and youths empowerment as a serious threat to national development. “And as such look inwards and encourage any made in Nigeria products. This is not for pride but to keep and ensure manufacturing facilities don’t shutdown at all cost.  “As to the graduating students, my advice is to all of you is to make proper use of knowledge impacted on you in course MIC101. “At this point i appreciate everyone who as contributed in one way or the other to make Momas a company to recorn with in the power sector today. “My prayer and wish is that the journey has just begun because technology never stops. At every opportunity we have to keep promoting the company and criticism and suggestions are all parts of development techniques. “At this junction i wish everyone here present the grace of Almighty to be with us as we embark to our various destinations back home,” he said