Top Nigeria’s integrated marketing communication industry practitioners are gearing up to attend the 2020 Industry Evening with Goddie Ofose summit, a platform designed to bring all the integrated marketing communications practitioners within the agencies and corporate organisations together to discussing developing issues in the industry. The event, which is the creation of Goddie Ofose, one of the most renowned and revered brand journalists in the country, is scheduled to hold on March 6, 2020 at Sheraton Hotel Ikeja Lagos. Some of the key players who have confirmed their attendance include the Chief Press Secretary to the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, who is attending as the special guest of honour. The theme of this exclusive industry evening event is “Advertising and the Power of the Nigerian Story”. Others are the chief creative officer of Noah’s Ark Communication, Mr. Lanre Adisa, the chief executive officer of Oracle Experience, Dr. Felix King Eiremiokhae, chief executive officer of Frutta Juice,  Mr. Kachi Onubogu,  the group head, corporate communications and external affairs, Access Bank Plc, Amaechi Okobi, the vice president CSR and Corporate communications, Airtel Nigeria  Mr. Emeka Oparah, the chief commercial officer of Multichoice Nigeria, Mr. Martin Mabutho, president Public Relation Consultants Association of Nigeria Mr. Israel Opayemi, chief executive officer of Modion Communication, Mr. Odion Aleobua,  former chief operating officer of Leo Burnett, Mr Lekan Lawal and the registrar/chief executive officer of APCON, Mrs. Ijedi Iyoha. The event, according to Goddie Ofose, the convener was designed “to bring together industry leaders that I have interacted with over the years in the quest to rev up conversations that will move the Nigerian Marketing and Communications industry forward”. Ofose also believes with theme of the night -Advertising and the Power of the Nigerian Story- the speaker, panelists and  all other stakeholders present will explore the overriding engagement benefits derivable in deepening the Nigerian social-cultural content in Advertising. The programme which is scheduled to be an annual event will attract stakeholders in Nigeria’s marketing communications industry, corporate organisations, young practitioners and students from selected universities and other higher institutions in the country. Ofose also feels weaving the conversation round the Nigerian story  will not only deepen the evening’s conversation but will equally throw up ideas that will bolster the corporate image of  brand Nigeria and raise the  national consciousness of industry players, young practitioners, students and other stakeholders in all ramifications.  In the opinion of some industry commentators, programmes like this in the long term, will inspire increased awareness on ways advertising  and marketing can stir up businesses to grow the value of Brand Nigeria; states and city destinations as well as x-ray and deepen the relevance of marketing communications in all Nigeria’s economic and political sectors. A special awards presentation segment will take place immediately after the summit at the Industry Evening with Goddie Ofose.