The Nigerian Stock Exchange (“NSE” or “The Exchange”) organised a Workshop on the legal and regulatory requirements of Derivatives trading for capital market operators on Tuesday, February 4, 2020 at the Exchange House in Lagos. L – R DR. Timi Austen- Peters  – Principal Partner Austen-Peters & Co; Oscar N. Onyema, OON, Chief Executive Officer, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Mr. Emomotimi Agama – Head Registration and Exchanges Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Nigeria; Oluwatoyin Alake, Head, Secondary Markets, NSE and Mr. Jude Chiemeka, Head, Trading Business Division, NSE during the NSE, Train Capital Market Operators on Legal and Regulatory Requirements for the Derivate Market at the Exchange today in Lagos.  The workshop was organised in collaboration with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to guide market participants to properly interpret the approved Exchange Traded Derivative Rules and recently released SEC’s Derivatives and Clearing Rules, as well as address concerns on the on-boarding process.  Delivering his opening remarks, the Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar N. Onyema, OON, said, “The introduction of Exchange Trade Derivatives on our market is aimed at broadening the options available to support efficient implementation of risk management and investment strategies across diverse asset classes and financial instruments. We are, therefore, delighted to host this event in recognition of the importance of capacity building and investor education to the development of this asset class.”  “We are working tirelessly to ensure that our Derivatives market aligns with International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO) principles by facilitating access to recognized and licensed derivatives products, world class market surveillance technology, effective trading rules as well as appropriate risk management and clearing facilities.”  Speaking on the rules guiding the Derivatives market, the Acting Director General, SEC, Ms Mary Uduk, represented by Head of Department, Registration, Exchanges, Market Infrastructure & Innovation, Mr. Emomotimi Agama, said, “The NSE and SEC have provided the platform and requisite rules to guide activities in the Derivatives market. It is, therefore, the responsibility of capital market operators to work with us to galvanise activities within this market segment. Furthermore, interested dealing members or clearing houses must build strong capacity to deliver on investor education, proper legal frameworks, effective risk management procedures, and advanced reporting standards to engage in Derivatives Trading for the safety & security of investors.”  In providing guidance on the legal framework guiding Derivatives Trading, Mr. Michael Dugeri, Senior Associate at Austen Peters emphasized the importance of market integrity, financial integrity and investors’ protection. As part of its commitment to building required infrastructures for derivatives market in Nigeria, the Exchange also announced a partnership with Central Securities Clearing System Plc (CSCS) to launch NG Clear, a world class central clearing counterparty (CCP) entity. The establishment of this CCP entity meets EMIR standards in Nigeria and is in line with G20 program to reform global financial regulation.