There is a statement by adage that your work will locate you, has happened as the Nigerian Institute of Social & Economic Research (NISER) has included Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) in its Joint Action Committee to aid information gathering on research -based matters relating to the Council’s regulatory role.Group photograph of the management of NSC and NISER  NISER made this known when the Executive Secretary and Chief Executive Officer of NSC, Mr. Hassan Bello and his Management Team paid a courtesy visit to NISER in Ibadan, recently.  The Director- General, NISER, Dr. Gbadebo Smith expressed delight that NSC ‘s Management team visited its institute, stating that NISER over the years had robust working relation with NSC and has also trained some personnel from the Strategic Planning & Research Department of the Council.  He further said NISER was ready to offer similar training programmes for staff of the Council when the need arises.  Dr. Smith stressed that his agency has commenced digitization to allow quick access to information.  Others members of NISER’s management team called for the development of transport infrastructure through research studies and adoption of artificial intelligence to drive the Nigerian economy. They also pledged to carry out research studies for NSC on Port Economic Regulation while supporting NSC through innovation and capacity building.  The Executive Secretary and Chief Executive Officer of the Council, Mr. Hassan Bello called for more collaboration between NSC and NISER in the areas of research and capacity building.  Bello, who was represented by the Director, Strategy Planning & Research, Mr. Philip Eduwa said collaborations with NISER was vital for NSC’s dry port projects. Mr.  Glory Onojedo, Director, South-West Zone NSC, Mr. Philip Eduwa, Director, Strategy Planning & Research, NSC, Dr. GbadeboSmith, Director- General, NISER and   ‘‘The Inland Dry Ports are currently at different stages of construction. The procurement of the proposed Ibadan Inland Dry at Olorisa-Oko, Moniya, Ibadan is now at the concluding stage. While these projects will certainly impact on the economies of the various catchment areas, collaboration with NISER by way of evidence- based research   and social economic impact of the project is desirable’’, he added.  The Director, South-West Zone of NSC, Mr.  Glory Onojedo called on NISER to support the agency in the provision of research studies on Impact Assessment for Ibadan Inland Dry Port. 