The Director-General of Standards Organisation Of Nigeria (SON) Barrister Osita Aboloma stated this while delivering his welcome address at The Sensitization Workshop For The Maritime Sector which was organized by Standards Organisation Of Nigeria (SON) in collaboration with the Council For The Regulation Of Freight Forwarders In Nigeria (CRFFN), Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Association Of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) And National Association Of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) The Sensitization Workshop for the Maritime Sector event was held on Tuesday, 25th February, 2020 in Lagos  Barrister Aboloma said today Sensitization Workshop in Lagos to interact with players in the Maritime Sector and other very important Stakeholders in various Sectors of the economy.  Aboloma who was ably represented at the event by Engr. Obiora Manafa Director, Inspectorate & Compliance Directorate Standards Organisation of Nigeria said it goes to show the importance you attach to Standardization and Quality Assurance and your zeal and commitment to join hands with SON to fight substandard products in Nigeria.  The DG noted that having partnered with ANLCA and NAGAFF and other key stakeholders to organise this workshop, we look forward to seeing more collaborations with other key stakeholders in various sectors of the economy. We are happy to see the representatives of Market Associations in South-West Region and major importers of products in the country in this Workshop.  The expected major deliverables/benefits of this maritime stakeholders ‘forum includes:  1 Fast tracking stakeholders’ understanding, knowledge and co-operation concerning SON’s processes and procedure especially in SONCAP, Ports and Borders operations and compliance activities.  2 Encouraging seamless importation and clearance.  3 Improving stakeholders/sister agencies collaboration, co-operation and synergizing.  4 Boosting the work of standardization, quality assurance and quality control.  5 Improving the level of compliance with import requirements and standards by importers and freight forwarders.  6 Realizing the cardinal objectives of federal Government’s economic diversification, Ease of Doing Business Policies.  7 Promoting the work and activities of SON through media coverage and publicity of the workshop.  8 Operators will be duly informed of SON’s processes especially the new innovations e-clearance system.  9 The forum would create conducive environment for mutual understanding between SON and Maritime Industry players.  Therefore, continuous engagement with sectoral operators and stakeholders would help SON to carry everybody along in the zero tolerance campaign against substandard, fake and counterfeit products, he noted.  “One major means and way of bringing the players on board the standard and quality voyage is through sensitization/enlightenment.  “We urge each and every one of our numerous stakeholders to key into SON’s numerous activities and collaborate with us in our fight against the influx of substandard products  “I want to use this opportunity to inform our various stakeholders that another sensitization workshop jointly organised by SON and some key Stakeholders will come up in March, 2020 on a date and venue to be announced.  The Captioned Photo: The Director-General of Standards Organisation Of Nigeria (SON) Barrister Osita Aboloma