The maritime industry is on the verge of revival Blames Customs for Introduction of POF Calls for Dredging of Warri, Port-Harcourt and Calabar Ports Urges Nigerians to partner SON to battles the scourge of substandard products in Nigerian markets The National President of the Association of Nigerian  Licensed Customs Agents, ANLCA, Hon Tony Iju Nwanbunike, has called on the National Assembly, NASS, to strengthen the Nigerian Shipper’ Council, NSC, to enable the Council carry out its regulatory functions.
Nwanbunike therefore called on the National Assembly to use legislative instruments to strengthen the Council if the Maritime Industry is to be competitive and attractive. He stated this when featured as guest at the Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria, AMJON, Round table at Apapa, Lagos. He expressed worry at the inability of the Council to effectively regulate Nigeria’s Maritime Industry owing to the influence of the owners and those behind many of the Shipping companies operating in the country. In his words: the ANLCA National President said, “The Council is doing well under barrister Hassan Bello but have challenge in Shipping Companies and Port Terminals in the country which is as results of some very powerful and influential persons behind their operations. The overbearing influence of these individuals is such that the Council is often handicapped in the enforcement of its operational guidelines in the Industry” Asked the outcome of his visits to the Secretary to Government of the Federation, SGF, The Standards Organization of Nigeria, SON, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, FMOT, Nwanbunike hinted that the SGF, Mr. Boss Mustapha, was very receptive and eager to resolve the issues affecting the Industry. Specifically, the ANLCA helmsman disclosed that the SGF, apart from inviting him to further deliberations at the Presidency has also asked for a detailed report from him on the issues and challenges hindering the growth of the sector so that long lasting solutions could be worked out to address the issues of gridlock, poor access roads and ensure greater effectiveness of the Ease of Doing Business initiative. “We are encouraged by the concern and determination of the SGF to address several of the lingering issues. We are hopeful that his resolve could pave way for a lot of the good things which have eluded the industry for long”, Nwanbunike said. “Equally gratifying is the outcome of the meeting and discussions we had with the minister of state, Transportation, Senator Gbemi Saraki. She expressed her desire to reshape the industry and reposition it for greater dividends to Nigerians” “The discussions we have had are very encouraging and I can confidently say that with the interest and commitment by the SGF, FMOT and the agencies we have visited so far, the maritime industry is on the verge of revival” “What we are doing is not just for our members alone but for the entire country. What we want is a better operational environment where things work in orderly. We are engaging all concerned to see how we can operationalize greater efficiency in the industry”. While commending SON for their efforts at curbing the influx of fake and substandard items into the country, Nwanbunike called on Nigerians to change their thinking and attitude to money. “The way and manner some persons run after money gives me cause for worry. Their desperation is frightening and very disturbing. How else do you explain the deliberate importation of unwholesome products into the country? “Who knows who could be affected or harmed-it could be the relatives of such crooked desperados or an innocent child somewhere” Nwanbunike therefore called on Nigerians to partner SON as the agency battles the scourge of substandard products in Nigerian markets adding that the battles is not that of SON alone but for everybody in this country and beyond. When response, why did ANLCA supported the collection of the Professional Operating Fees, POF, from clearing agents? The ANLCA National President said it is the fall out of Customs refusal to give clearing agents 1% of Customs annual revenue for developmental needs of clearing agents in the country. He explains further that for decades we asked the Nigeria Customs to give us at least 1% of its collected annual revenue for our operational needs. All the money you hear Customs talk about is collected for the Service by clearing agents. This involves a lot of work, cost and efforts which that 1% could help to assuage but nobody listened to us. So if the POF is going to take care of trainings, insurance and capacity building for our members, we have no choice but to embrace it” In response to cargo redirect to eastern ports, Nwanbunike urged the managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, to engage stakeholders more on its planned cargo diversion to the Eastern Ports before, not after divert cargo to Warri and Calabar ports. Because, he noted that how and why NPA have to divert cargos to Eastern ports when my warehouse is in Lagos? Does it make sense? Who pays for the cost of moving such cargo back to Lagos? If anything happens in the course of moving cargo from Warri to Lagos by road, who bears the responsibility? These are the issues that the management of NPA must look at if efforts to decongest the ports of Lagos are to succeed, the ANLCA President said. He further described Calabar seaport as critical to the nation’s economy, with routes linking Ebonyi, Benue states respectively, down to all the northern states of the country. Nwabunike expressed worries over the under utilisation of Calabar port, even as he stressed the need for other existing eastern ports to be revamped because Lagos sea port have been overstretched. The NPA management should work with international trades’ agents to initiate the cargo from the port loading to the port of discharging. He added that all cargos meant for Eastern States, South -South States and some parts of North Central States, etc can be channeled to Eastern ports from the port of loading.  The Captioned Photo:  The National President of the Association of Nigerian  Licensed Customs Agents, ANLCA, Hon Tony Iju Nwanbunike