 The shortfall in the production of tomato in Nigeria currently stands at 700,000 metric tonnes, the National Horticultural Research Institute has declared. According to the institute, Nigeria currently produces 2.3 million metric tonnes of tomato in contrast to 1.8 million metric tonnes produced two years ago, while the national demand is three million metric tonnes. The Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer, NIHORT, Abayomi Olaniyan, disclosed this at a two-day workshop organised by the institute for stakeholders in tomato and telfairia production and value addition in Abuja. He said, “Tomato production in Nigeria is still short of what is demanded particularly during the second and third quarters of the year. “While about three million metric tonnes is the national requirement, about 2.3 metric tonnes is the production. “About two years ago, the production was 1.8 million metric tonnes but because of the trainings and technologies that NIHORT has perfected alongside other stakeholders, the production has increased by about 25 per cent. “That is the reason we are getting the production figure of 2.3 million metric tonnes as against 1.8 million metric tonnes.” Olaniyan observed that one of the major reasons for the deficit was post-harvest losses, adding that about 40 per cent of tomatoes produced in Nigeria were often wasted. Another reason for the deficit in supply, according to the NIHORT boss, was the inadequacy in tomato nursery practices. “Tomato management is important for future development of the commodity value chain,” he stated. Olaniyan added, “Nursery is a basic need and prerequisite for producing quality seedlings. Putting efforts on quality seedling production offers scope for sustainable tomato production. “Additionally, nursery provides employment opportunities for technical, skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled labour.” On telfairia, he explained that the leaf had high nutritional, medicinal and industrial value, adding that it was rich in protein, fat, minerals and vitamins. He said there was high prospect in production and marketing of telfairia within and outside Nigeria and that the basic knowledge on value addition was important. The Coordinator of the two-day training, Olutola Oyedele, said the programme focused on rudiments of nursery production, management and value addition.