Enjoy GOtv moments with your loved ones all through the month of February with entertaining programs fit for the whole family. This month features football from the biggest leagues including the Premier League, La Liga and Serie A; wholesome local shows and movies on Africa Magic and ROK; and top international movies on TNT and M-Net Movies Zone. Lovers of Bollywood are in for a treat this month as Zee World, your destination for local Indian content, presents new series and new seasons of your favorite shows. The kids are also not left out as they get to follow the adventures of their beloved characters on channels such as Cartoon Network, Jim Jam and Nickelodeon. Here’s your guide to what’s hot this weekend:  A fierce football rivalry will be rekindled on Saturday, 1 February in La Liga when Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid clash in the Madrid Derby at Estadio Santiago Bernabéu live on GOtv. The game, which will be the 166th encounter between both teams in La Liga, will be broadcast live on Saturday on SuperSport Select 4 (channel 34) at 4pm exclusive to GOtv Max subscribers. Also showing on Saturday, is the Premier League match between Liverpool and Southampton. Watch it live on SuperSport Select 2 (channel 32) at 4pm.  Our Sunday movie pick on M-Net Movies Zone (channel 3) is the Hollywood romcom, And So It Goes, starring Oscar winners Michael Douglas and Diane Keaton. A self-absorbed man enlists the help of his neighbour when his estranged son drops off his granddaughter. Grab your bag of popcorn and watch this movie on Sunday, 2 February at 5pm. When multiple marriages are arranged for one person, it tends to get dangerous and competitive. Catch the next episode of the brand-new series Ring Of Fire on Zee World (channel 25) Weekdays at 8pm. Nightly pop S2 on E! Entertainment (channel 26) serves the wildest takedown of pop culture’s juiciest stories, unfiltered, unexpected and always outrageous. Keep up with all the juiciest stories all month long Tuesdays to Fridays at 8pm. Fifi and The Flowertots on Jim Jam (channel 61): The brand-new series follows Fifi and her amazing group of little Flowertot friends as they go about their everyday lives filled with endless possibilities in Flowertot garden.  It starts Saturday, 1st February at 6:50pm Lovers of Nollywood, this one’s for you. Watch the movie Jon Ajai on ROK 2 (channel 17) Sunday, 2 February at 8pm. A young man is sentenced to 21 years imprisonment after drunk driving and killing two teenagers in the process. He is forced to continue his life behind bars. Sunday, 2nd February at 8pm. Don’t miss out on the quality programming on GOtv this month. Follow GOtv on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook for more. And with the GOtv Step Up offer, you get enjoy content on a higher package when you renew your subscription. Visit www.gotvafrica.com or download the MyGOtv app from your iOS and Android store to find out more.