“The existences of such products are partly responsible for the quality of service (QoS) challenges confronting the industry.”  Speaking during the Second Type Approval Sensitisation workshop in Lagos at the weekend, its Director, Technical Standards and Network Integrity, Bako Wakil lamented the increase in product counterfeiting across the world, and restated the determination of the Commission to rid the country of such products.  Represented by Assistant Director, Anthony Ikemefuna, he said: “We have seen several cases of where counterfeits are being fished out and no matter where they are we will not stop until we remove them all. We are doing everything possible to identify unlicensed manufacturers and making sure they don’t penetrate the market without approval from us and those who go ahead without our approval will be penalised.  “Counterfeiting is economic sabotage and highly harmful to the public. It is our aim to protect telecom networks, have an effective spectrum and ensure quality services. Type approved products or equipment goes a long way in standardisation of services and giving more satisfaction.”  It was reiterated that the Nigerian Communications Commission will rid the industry of fake/counterfeit devices and equipment in the country.  In his presentation, NCC’s Consultant on Telecoms Devices and Equipment, Fidelis Onah, discussed the effect of counterfeit devices on telecoms equipment, and highlighted the global economic effect it has on businesses and national development of a country. Onah said counterfeit goods have rapid sales but cost more in value which is dangerous to the people and the economy.  Citing the fifth generation network technology (5G), he said: ” 5G network technologies will grow faster than previous mobile technology family and easy to manage. With 5G, numerous and varied services will be supported. With the network there are agile systems to work with, low latency, slicing, massive sensor and infrastructure based on internet of things (IoT) because asides faster internet speed, it will reduce the cost of data.  “Counterfeits will only bring suffering, death, loss of life and properties, lack of product satisfaction, loss of capital investment, government loss, lack of trust and so on. Sale of counterfeit products is the largest underground business in the world and it is growing rapidly but as a country and a commission we are bent to remove these products.”  The Commission  revealed that unlicensed dealers estimated to reach 75 per cent are currently trading on devices that are not approved adding that the NCC will do everything to protect the remaining 25 per cent licenced equipment dealers who have genuinely invested in the business, and to also sanitise the business environment in order to boost customers’ confidence.   The Head, Wireless Network Unit on Type Approval of the NCC, Chukwuma Nwaiwu, said for any telecom business to operate legally it must be able to meet the requirements for it to be licenced as this would go a long way in reducing the number of unsafe and less quality product.  “To ensure effective spectrum and quality services, every telecommunication business must ensure it is type approved by NCC licensees, equipment manufacturers and business entity seeking to commercialise any telecom equipment. We also urge every stakeholder and licenced companies not to hesitate to report the activities of illegal or unlicensed manufacturers or vendors in order for them to be penalised,” he said.   Also speaking at the event, Managing Director/CEO of Beta Bridges, Mr. Richard Abiodun, said there was need for the NCC to address the market threat emanating from unlicensed dealers who sell devices and equipment that are not Type Approved by NCC, thus selling counterfeited and substandard devices, just to make quick money.  