The managing of the Nigerian Breweries has reported a decent full year 2019 result despite the challenging operating environment. With revenue growth hitting a nine-quarter all time high, and gross margin and EBITDA remaining resilient. The company attributed the above performance to slight price increases taken across key brands ahead of the festive season as well as the continued strong growth trend in malt, Heineken brand and the overall premium portfolio where the company continues to execute. Analysts at Cordros Research said “We increase our price target to N65.86 as against N63.60 previously) and retain our ‘BUY’ rating. Sustained Recovery in Operating Performance: NB reported full year 2019 report saw revenue growing by 1.2% year on year. Although lower than our expectations, revenue growth was better compared to its major competitor (INTBREW: -5.8% year on year), and was driven by price and mix gains.  Top-line benefitted from slight price increases taken across its premium portfolio in the period. Heineken NV (NB’s parent company) in its 2019FY earnings call stated that the Heineken brand and the premium portfolio recorded double-digit volume growth.  “We note that gains at the gross revenue level were slightly eroded by the higher excise duty expense compared to last year. EBITDA for the quarter improved by 8.1% year on year with gross margin gains offsetting the higher operating expenditure up by 8.9% year on year). “We now model 2020E net revenue/gross margin increase of 3.5%/100bps driven by further price-mix gains as we expect growth in high margin malt and premium lager to be sustained.  Revenue will also receive a boost from higher prices – NB increased prices at the start of February to compensate for the recent VAT adjustment.  “Despite OPEX remaining elevated on continued route-to-market spending, EBITDA and margin are expected to grow by 8.1% and 70bps.  “Amidst the lower yield environment, NB recently issued N52.5 billion in commercial papers at a yield of 7.1%. Thus, we forecast a 27.8% decline in net finance costs, and reduce our cost of debt in WACC assumption. Overall, we forecast 2020E EPS of N2.85, implying growth of 41.6%. The net impact of our changes is an increase in our price target to N65.86/share (from N63.60) – implying a 34.8% potential upside.. 