Imbued with the passion to massively accelerate growth in Nigeria’s marketing communications industry and propel all-round relevance of the industry in the country’s development, Goddie Ofose, one of Nigeria’s top brand analyst and journalist is convening an industry evening summit with the theme “Advertising and the Power of the Nigerian Story”. The event holds on March 6, 2020 at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Ikeja, Lagos. Gboyega Akosile, chief press secretary to Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu will be the special guest of Honour at the occasion. The lead paper for the evening will be presented by Mr. Lanre Adisa, chief creative officer, Noah’s Ark Limited. Meanwhile members of the panel who will discuss the Adisa’s paper  include:  Mr. Onyekachi Onubogu, CEO, Frutta Juice and Services; Mr. Amaechi Okobi, Group Head, Communications and External Affairs, Access Bank Plc,  Mr. Emeka Oparah, Vice President, CSR and Communications, Airtel Nigeria, Mr. Martin Mabutho, Chief Commercial Officer, Multichoice Nigeria, and Mr. Jaiye Israel Opayemi, chief executive officer, Chain Reactions/ president, Public Relations Consultants Association of Nigeria, Others include Dr. Felix King Eiremiokhae, chief executive officer, Oracle Experience/convener The Startups Africa, Mrs. Ijedi Iyoha, acting Registrar/CEO, Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON), Mr. Odion Aleobua, CEO, Modion Communications and Mr Lekan Lawal  as the moderator for the segment. The event, according to Ofose, was designed “to bring together industry leaders that I have interacted with over the years in the quest to rev up conversations that will move the Nigerian Marketing and Communications industry forward”. Ofose also believed that with theme of the night, -Advertising and the Power of the Nigerian Story- the speaker, panelists and all other stakeholders present will explore the overriding engagement benefits derivable in deepening the Nigerian social-cultural content in advertising. The programme which is scheduled to be an annual event will attract stakeholders in Nigeria’s marketing communications industry, corporate organisations, young practitioners and students from selected universities and other higher institutions in the country. The convener felt that weaving the conversation round the Nigerian story will not only deepen the evening’s conversation but will equally throw up ideas that will bolster the corporate image of brand Nigeria and raise the national consciousness of industry players, young practitioners, students and other stakeholders in all ramifications.