The National President of maritime group under auspices of Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) leads the National Executive Committee (NECOM) on courtesy visit to the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) corporate office.Mr Iju Tony Nwabunike , the ANLCA President said we make bold to say that you have set the pace for your successors to emulate and excel. Your immediate predecessor has done a good job which you have built upon tremendously by raising the organization relevance through visible innovation to national consciousness. The maritime industry under the Buhari administration is in good hands and hopes are high because the high degree of commitment by those driving the process is not in doubt.  The courtesy visit and requests was held on February 13, 2020 at Lekki, Lagos.  He added that you are a member of the Nigerian maritime family and as a former legal adviser/barrister of Nigeria Customs Services (NCS).  Nwabunike pointed out that NECOM under my leadership as presently constituted under section 6(Sub-section a-i) is to open a new page in our mutual relationship in line with ANLCA Constitution which state inter-alia “To promote and protect the image, fame and integrity of Customs Brokers in all their business activities with approved Government Agencies related, Affiliated or concern with business of the Association in Nigeria.”  He noted that our meeting with you today strengthens ANLCA’s constitutionally backed position to contribute to National Growth and Economic Development.  “We seek to draw Federal Government attention through your very important office to some areas of interest of our members, the entire maritime industry and the country at large.”  Those Areas of Interest are:   Nwabunike assured the director general that ANLCA look forward to continually support the Government through all lawful means within our capacity.  Importantly, he said we demand continuous compliance orientation, training and seminars of our members to help the organization goals and objectives.  ANLCA President seeks for the director general visitation as he put it “In no distant future, may I use this medium to invite my Director General to ANLCA National Secretariat here in Lagos to meet with all our Executives in eighteen (18) secure Customs stations: Land, Air and Sea ports in Nigeria, as we champion a new cause of relationship.”  The ANLCA President commenting on automation, he pointed out that, SON have upgraded their standards, and they are doing wonderfully well. So, it’s about getting patience with what they are doing, because it’s all about automation and increasing the capacity and the standards of what they are doing.”  While, the Director General of SON, Osita Aboloma in response said, the partnership is a welcome development as one of their mandates is to facilitate trade at the port rather than total regulator.  The partnership will benefit both parties as far as all of them remain within the limit of law, he added. 