The Nigerian Stock Exchange (“NSE” or “The Exchange”) hosted capital market stakeholders at a symposium tagged, “Finance Act 2019” at the Exchange Monday today. L – R shows Olumide Bolumole, Head, Listing Business Division, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Oscar N. Onyema, OON, Chief Executive Officer, NSE; Jude Chiemeka, Head , Trading Business Division, NSE; Wole Obayomi, Head of Tax, KPMG; Bola Adeeko, Head, Shared Services Division, NSE and Ajibola Olomola – Partner, Deal Advisory, M&A Tax ; Financial Services & Regulatory Services, KPMG during a symposium tagged “Finance Act 2020” at the Exchange, Lagos today  The event which was held in collaboration with KPMG Nigeria to highlight the implications of Nigeria’s Finance Bill 2019 passed into law by the National Assembly in October 2019.  The Bill, which took effect on 1 February 2020, has the objectives to promote fiscal equity, align domestic laws with global best practices, support MSMEs, increase government revenues and incentivize activities in the capital market.  Speaking at the event, Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema, said, “The signing of the Finance Bill into law represents a landmark achievement for the Nigerian capital market. Since 2014, the Exchange alongside Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as well as other capital market stakeholders has been at the forefront of advocacy with policy makers and tax authorities for favourable tax structures for primary and secondary markets activities in the Nigerian capital market.  The NSE, in its efforts to support the growth of the Nigerian economy and its issuers is, therefore, happy to collaborate with leading tax expert, KPMG to highlight the implications of these new rules and provide guidance on how to effectively navigate the provisions of the bill, especially as it relates to taxes.”  Speaking, also on the Finance Bill 2019, Partner & Head, Tax, Regulatory and People Services, KPMG, Mr. Wole Obayomi who said, “Finance Act 2019 is a landmark legislation that should be embraced by all stakeholders to ensure it achieves its laudable objectives. The removal of multiple tax footprints for securities lending and real estate investment schemes is expected to stimulate activities in those segments of the market.  The generous incentives for the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the Finance Act coupled with the launching of the Growth Board for capital raising by that sector from the Nigerian Stock Exchange, are timely interventions to drive the growth of the economy through the SMEs. Overall, the Finance Act 2019 is a welcome development.”  In attendance at the symposium were investors, listed and prospective companies, and other capital market operators