Technology is reshaping the world in unbelievable ways and a look around simply buttresses this fact. Disruption is occurring almost every other minute and African countries, particularly Nigeria must also be prepared, so as not to be left behind in this era. Come February 27, 2020, by 12:30pm at the Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, Taiwo Fajolu and Chukwuemeka Fred Agabta, Jnr. “CFA” are set to launch their co-authored book titled, “Technology Disruption; To Wrestle or To Unleash”  The central theme of the book launch is: “Re-imagining Enterprise through Effective Deployment of Innovation for Growth and Leadership” and Mr. Wale Ajisebutu, EVC, 21st Century Technologies will serve as the distinguished chairman of the occasion.  Speaking ahead of the book launch, Dr. Ayotunde Coker, Managing Director, Rack Centre said, “A really engaging book, and one that impressively draws on historical anecdotes of innovation and disruption right from the first industrial revolution to the current 4th industrial revolution. It gives intellectual and entertaining insights on today’s disruptions and possibilities”.  About the Authors  Taiwo Fajolu is an author and a business consultant with hands-on training through a World Bank Group led project, a cognate corporate trainer with a passionate interest in innovative technology and creative entrepreneurship.  Taiwo has been involved in training for the State and federal government on different youth empowerment projects. He invented ‘Vacuum Analysis’, a competence development and workplace complexity management technique.  He helps revitalise troubled businesses through enterprise transformation and was the lead consultant in facilitating the partnership of a Europe leader in UPS, Newave Energy (now a member of ABB Group), with the Nigerian Partner.  Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. “CFA” is an author; co-founder, GoDoHub.org, and the regional director of Founder Institute, the world’s largest pre-seed accelerator. He anchors the weekly TV show, Tech Trends on Channels Television, and writes a weekly column (ICT Clinic) in the Punch Newspaper. CFA is also a director in the Innovation Support Network (ISN), a network of 100+ hubs and co-working spaces in Nigeria.  CFA has authored two books namely “Powering your Business on the Internet and Social Media – A Guide for Today’s Business Owner” & “Becoming a Professional Blogger – the Complete Step by Step Guide”. On why the book was written, the authors explains that the book project is to get deployed as a tool to improve the capacity to crack the code of growth and possibilities as the law of increase is set in motion through creative thinking, advancing opportunities to create innovative products or technology that would create new demand in the market space.  The words of the Founder and Group Managing Director, Interswitch, Mitchell Elegbe, best describes what to expect from this book, “These highly informed duo have challenged us all to be available with the best of our innovation and yet, be responsible to create the needed balance that makes us live a peaceable life. Indeed, the book is insightful, highly engaging, and instructional, avail yourself and anybody you care for with this book”. The authors with this book, intend to reveal practical solutions and deeper insights that will bring Africa and Africans to the forefront on digitization, using technology and creative innovations to deal with the issues of stunted and delayed growth in the continent.