Over time, the customs brokers have been victims of substandard importation by importers who, in some cases, failed to disclose to us the actual content or degree of compliance with extant rules like SON Confornmity Assessment Programmes (SONCAP). Mr 1ju Tony Nwabunike, President of Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) while Delivered his speech at a occasion of stakeholders sensitization forum organized by Standards Organization Of Nigeria (SON) in Apapa, Lagos today Tuesday 25″ February, 2020.  Nwabunike noted that you will also agree with me that the influx of theses illicit products, in addition to being injurious to our national economy, also spells doom for our people. He cited a proverb in lgbos which says “When a man throws a stone into the market, he does not know whether it is his mother or another close relation that would be hit by the stone’  “In view of copious challenges faced in our line of business, we have taken it upon ourselves to educate importers on the need for their compliance to safeguard lives and avoid losses emanating from seizures and destruction of fake and substandard goods.  ANLCA President disclosed that this task is daunting but we are not relenting because customs brokers have suffered an estimated cumulative losses amounting to over N20b in the last ten years for undertaking to clear goods discovered to be substandard.  “Let me put it clearly, that upon seizure of suspected fake or substandard goods after payment of duty, it will be easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for an importer, whose consignments were seized to pay you the balance of the agreed sum even after the broker has spent his money on the logistics. This is just a mild analogy of the costly price we as professionals are paying to achieve standards and build an enduring economy that will be beneficial to all, he added.  He recall that earlier this month, SON destroyed N480m worth of substandard mobile phones, late last year, the organization also destroyed 5000 fake gas cylinders valued at N51.3m. these are just two examples of a routine activity that promotes quality in our country.  He noted that destroying investment channeled wrongly towards fake and substandard goods may look harsh, but preventing death, injuries and pains of buying poor standard imported items is a great humanitarian task.  For the latter, I commend SON for saving lives.  He further commended the leadership of SON for bringing this stakeholders meeting to the port at a time when access to Apapa comes with inconvenience is another mark of resilience, commitment and selflessness on the of SON won’t end this presentation without urging every one of us, either as individuals or corporate entities, to join SON in the noble battle to instill standards and raise quality in all we import, manufacture, buy and sell.  “I hope this meeting will engender attitudinal improvement, promote ethics of compliance and further sensitize we all, on dos and don’ts in the realm of standards.  “I call for open, fair and frank interactions that will support government, businesses and consuming citizens toward our drive for sustainable quality lifestyle.  “It is desirable that this sensitization should be more frequent, at least bi-monthly to provide the platform for stakeholders to rub minds with the regulatory agencies for a more efficient port system  In his earlier welcome address, the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Director General, DG, Barrister, Osita Aboloma said that the SON is not interested in destroying anybody’s goods or property because it is a big loss to the person and the Nation and unfriendly to the environment – Let’s work together as a team and free Nigeria of substandard products Barrister Aboloma who was ably represented at the event by Engr. Obiora Manafa a Director, Inspectorate & Compliance Directorate under Standards Organisation of Nigeria said We urge each and every one of our numerous stakeholders to key into SON’s numerous activities and collaborate with us in our fight against the influx of substandard products According to barrister Aboloma, the essence of these Sensitization and Awareness Creation Programmes is to carry all our stakeholders and the general public along in our activities and educate them on the need and importance of adhering to the rules, guidelines for importation and compliance with standards.  “We don’t want importers or clearing agents to feign ignorant of the import requirements of SON. According to him, that is why SON is putting so much resource to educate the public.  “SON will not hesitate to arrest and prosecute those that wilfully import substandard products into the country in line with the SON Act No. 14 of 2015.  “We have a mandate to protect the lives and properties of Nigerian and we will continue to achieve this mandate by the special grace of God. This is our primary responsibility and we shall not leave any stone unturned in living up to this task, he added. 