 Largest Cohort, since inception, to join the programme to reach more under-resourced schools and provide children with quality education for better life outcomes Teach For Nigeria, a non-profit organization focused on improving the quality of education for Nigeria’s most marginalized children, today announced the opening of the application for its 2020 fellowship programme. Through the recruitment drive, Teach For Nigeria will target the enrolment of 400 fellows, the largest since inception, into the fourth cohort of its fellowship programme.The Teach For Nigeria Fellowship programme is a 2-year full-time paid commitment that is designed to build a movement of leaders who will work towards eliminating educational inequity by teaching in under-served schools in low-income communities across Nigeria. In 2017, Teach For Nigeria launched and deployed its first set of 44 Fellows to teach in under-resourced schools in Lagos and Ogun state. In 2018, following a partnership with the Kaduna State Government, an additional cohort of 172 Fellows were placed in high-need schools in Lagos, Ogun and Kaduna state, and another cohort of 47 Fellows was recruited in 2019 Speaking on the Launch, Bukola Kolajo, Head of Recruitment, Matriculation & Selection, Teach For Nigeria said: “Teach For Nigeria understands the challenges and issues facing the education sector in Nigeria and is fighting to resolve this by bridging the nation’s educational inequity gap. We also recognize that Nigeria already has much of what is needed to thrive and overcome these challenges. This is why we look inwards for the solution. There is a wealth of incredible talent among university students, recent graduates, and young professionals. We are working to create a new future for Nigeria by galvanizing the rising generation of leaders to develop the potential of our children. The recruitment of 400 fellows is a big step towards our vision of developing the potential of every Nigerian child.” Also during the launch, Ogunleye Olaseni, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Ogun State said: “The campaign embarked upon by Teach For Nigeria is aimed at increasing the number, quality, and diversity of people seeking to become Fellows in high need schools (rural and urban); connecting aspiring teachers with information about the pathways to teaching including preparation, certification, training and mentoring.” Furthermore, speaking on the partnership with the Ogun State government, she said: “The partnership of Teach For Nigeria with the Ogun State Government has completely transformed our teaching process and consequently has improved learning outcomes in all our public primary schools.” Application for prospective fellows commenced Monday 17 February 2020 through the application link: www.teachfornigeria.org/apply. To apply, applicants must meet specific requirements and qualifications: be a Nigerian, be below 35 years old, have a Bachelor’s degree with a minimum qualification of 2:1 and must have completed the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) by July 2020. For this year’s recruitment, Teach For Nigeria has expanded the recruitment pool, to recruit existing teachers to join the Fellowship programme. The Teach For Nigeria team will review the applications of prospective fellows and if successful, the candidates will be invited to write an online test and thereafter attend an assessment day in Lagos and Kaduna. If successful, an offer will be made to join the fellowship.  Earlier in the year, Teach For Nigeria formalized its partnership with the Lagos State Government, to place fellows in public primary schools across the state, allowing it to reach and positively impact more children.  About Teach For Nigeria Teach For Nigeria is a non-profit organization focused on enlisting Nigeria’s most promising future leaders in the effort to expand educational and life opportunities for all children in Nigeria. Teach For Nigeria is driving the movement to address educational inequity in Nigeria, by marshalling not a few but many of our nation’s graduates towards unlocking the potential of our children, through dynamic, determined and transformational leadership. For more information, please visit: www.teachfornigeria.org