 The Management of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (nahcoaviance) is delighted to announce the release of the mother of Chairman of Board of the Company, Mrs. Alice Fadeni. The 90 – year – old mother of Dr. SeindeFadeniOladapowas abducted from her residence at Okeriota area of Ode Aye in Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State more than a week ago. Gunmen, numbering about seven, had on Tuesday, January 28, 2020,stormed the residence of the old womanand drove her away in a Toyota Sienna  vanto an unknown destination. But confirming the news of the release on Friday, the GMD/CEO of nahcoaviance, Mrs. OlatokunboFagbemi, said the latest development is great news for the Board, Management and Staff of the Company. She thanked all those who supported the Company and its Board during the dire period. In her words, “We are grateful to all those who with calls, prayers and words of encouragement, stood with us during this trying period of the abduction of the mother of our Chairman. Her release is to us, such a great relief.” The NAHCO GMD/CEO noted that Mrs. Alice Fadeni is in good condition and is now re-united with her family. About Us The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (nahcoaviance) is West Africa’s leading ground handling service provider with presence in all major Nigerian Airports. Founded in December 1979, the Company has since grown into a multi – billion naira company with diversified investments in energy, logistics and development of a free trade zone. This has led to the establishment of Nahco Free Zone (NFZ), Mainland Cargo Options Limited (MCO) and Nahco Energy Power and Infrastructure (EPI). The Company has a vision to be the leading service provider, continuously innovating and reshaping our chosen markets. NAHCO’s core values are:Safety, Integrity, Innovation, Reliability, Respect and Empathy. The Company offers a number of services at more than ten airports across Nigeria. These include: ·        Aircraft Handling ·        Cargo Handling ·        Passenger Handling ·        Crew Transportation ·        Passenger Profiling ·        Training 