Oliver Omajuwa, General Manager, SIFAX Off Dock Nigeria Limited, was among foremost marketing professionals in Nigeria that were recently conferred with the fellowship of the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria. L-R: Tony Agenmonmen, President/Chairman of Council, National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria presenting the fellowship certificate to Oliver Omajuwa, General Manager, SIFAX Off Dock. A total of 77 members from various sectors were awarded the prestigious honour. At the event, which was held at Radisson Blu, Ikeja, Tony Agenmonmen, President/Chairman of Council, National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria said the new set of awardees comprises distinguished men and women who have distinguished themselves in the area of marketing in their various organizations. Omajuwa, who joined the institute in 2011, is a graduate of Business Administration from Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma and also holds a Master of Business Administration with specialization in Marketing from LadokeAkintola University of Technology (LAUTECH). He is also an alumnus of Pan African University (Lagos Business School). His professional experience spans roles like Sales Analyst (Classic Beverages – producers of La Casera range of beverages) and Chief Marketing Officer- Air Separation Nig. Ltd – manufacturers of medical and industrial oxygen gas with the parent company in Buffalo, U.S.A.  He also worked as the Admin/Marketing Manager, Duraclean Gases before he joined SIFAX Group in October 3, 2006 as Marketing/Corporate Affairs Officer. IMG 9546: L-R: Olumuyiwa Akande, Head, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group; Oliver Omajuwa, General Manager, SIFAX Off Dock and Philips Ojo, Officer, Corporate Communications at the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria Fellows’ Dinner and Awards Night where Omajuwa bagged NIMN Fellowship. He rose through the ranks in SIFAX Group and was promoted General Manager, SIFAX Off Dock Nigeria Limited in April 2015 where he is the head of the subsidiary and a member of the management team. Asides his membership of  NIMN, he is also a member of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), Fellow of International Logistics & Administration (ILA) and member of Nigerian Institute of Shipping (NIS) and has attended high profile sales/marketing, management, leadership and public relations courses/seminars, workshops and lectures both in Nigeria and abroad.