As part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) to the people of Edo, Delta and Imo States, Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc and its joint venture partners, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and subsidiary, the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC) Limited have made additional donations to the state governments in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. For Edo State, the items donated were 25 hospital beds and a Transport Ventilator; for Delta State, the items donated were 25 hospital beds and a Transport Ventilator; also for Imo State, the items donated were 25 hospital beds, sanitary buckets, 300 pieces of alcohol based hand sanitizers, Infrared thermometers, 300 pieces N95 face mask, hand gloves, organic soap, a Transport Ventilator, amongst others.  .  This is in addition to the motorised sprayers, knapsack sprayers, protective eye goggles, hand sanitizers, nose/face masks, temperature guns, chemical gloves, and personal protective equipment, among others, donated earlier to the three states in April this year.  Presenting the medical equipment  on behalf of the company to the Edo and Delta state governments, the Western Assets Base Manager, Mr. Emmanuel Otokhine said that as the states have provided the enabling environment for SEPLAT’s operations, it behooves on the company to also support them with whatever it could to move the state forward especially now that the globe is battling with the novel coronavirus pandemic.  The Edo State Governor, Mr. Goodwin Obaseki, was represented by the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, who received the items on behalf of Edo State Government at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Benin. Also, Dr. Ebomwonyi O. Itohan (Medical Director, Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Benin City, Edo State); Personnel of Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Benin City, Edo State, and Personnel of the Edo State COVID-19 Treatment Centre, Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Benin City, were I attendance.  The Delta State Governor, Senator (Dr.) Ifeanyi Okowa, represented by Dr. Austin Obidi (Chairman, Delta State Hospitals Management Board, and Team Lead, Donations Pillar, Delta State COVID-19 Response), received items on behalf of Delta State Government. Also, Dr. (Mrs.) Minnie Oseji (Permanent Secretary, Delta State Ministry of Health); Dr. Patrick Onwuachi (Senior Special Assistant to the Governor of Delta State on Health Monitoring); Personnel of Asaba Specialist Hospital, Asaba, Delta State and Personnel of Delta State COVID-19 Treatment Centre, Asaba Specialist Hospital, Asaba, witnessed the donation.  In Imo State,  Mr. Emeka Onyeagba,  the Eastern Assets Base Manager at SEPLAT, who made the presentation on behalf of the company, said the move was in fulfillment of SEPLAT’s promise made earlier this year, noting that the action is also in line with the Company’s core values and objectives in terms its corporate social responsibility.  “This is a promise we made in April during the first donation, and we are here to fulfil that promise. As a responsible company doing business in Imo state, we have a special responsibility of meeting the needs of our host communities by giving back to our people. We hope the government will put these items into good use and by so doing, Imo people will continue to feel the impact of SEPLAT,” Dr. Orjiako said.  It will be recalled that that during the first donation in April, SEPLAT went ahead to provide palliatives to over 17 communities in Ohaji Egbema and Oguta oil communities as a way of cushioning the economic hardship faced by the communities occasioned by the COVID 19 pandemic.  The Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, represented by his Deputy, Professor Placid Njoku commended SEPLAT for its support and sense of responsibility at this critical time when states and countries across the globe are grappling with the challenge of the coronavirus pandemic. He expressed gratitude to the management of SEPLAT for always being available to the people of the state when they are needed most. The Imo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Damaris Osunkwo, was also available to receive the SEPLAT team. 