The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday released a new policy called GSI (Global Standing Instruction). According to the circular number FPRD/DIR/GEN/CIR/07/056 dated to July 13, 2020 to all banks and other financial institutions in the country, signed by Kevin N Amugo, Director, Financial Policy and Regulation Department of CBN.  The circular also stated that CBN shall ensure uninterrupted availability of the CRMS platform and connectivity to NIBSS platform.  The policy may serve as a very welcome development in banking policy if it is well implemented to the latter.  The policy applies to all financial institutions including banking in the country. For instance, If you take a loan in any bank let say GTB and you refused to pay back said loan, CBN would look for any other bank(s) in the country you banks with, let say Access bank or Sterling bank, where you have accounts and there is money, the CBN would take the money from those accounts and pay GTB back. Example, you take 30k Loan from GTB and you fail to pay back. You have 10k in your Access bank account, 15k in your Sterling bank joint account with your wife and 8k in your child’s First bank account that you help her manage (because she is still a minor). We would sweep the 15k in your Sterling bank joint account with your wife, sweep the 10k in your Access Bank, and take 5k out of the 8k you have in your child’s First Bank account. We would send them all to GTB. The remaining 3k in your child’s First Bank account would not be touched. That’s a promise.  The circular also added that even if it’s a joint account that your BVN is found on, money would be moved from there!  CBN reiterated that If we find out that you have an account that we should have moved money from but you have done chua-chua to not put your bvn on that account, then your BVN would be watchlisted.  “Only principal and interest would be swept from your other accounts. Penalty charges would not be included.  “If a bank wrongfully activates GSI on you (you have not defaulted on your loan and they go make the system sweep from your other accounts) , the bank would pay a fine of 500k sharparly. No begging.  CBN urge all stakeholders to be watchful, saying, if you complain about a wrongful activation of GSI on your accounts, and the bank claims you are wrong, you then decide to request for arbitration. If the arbiter rules that you are correct, then the bank pays a fine of 10M to you. No story!  In the circular, CBN stated that the operation GSI will commences on August 1st 2020.  The apex regulator directed all operators to ensure that borrowers are properly educated about the GSI mandate and its implications; and enshrine same in their loan application process.  “Ensure that the terms and conditions of the mandate are clearly understood before execution.  “CBN/NIBSS shall provide adequate training for PFIs on GSI related processes and settlement procedures upon  This objective of guidelines is to help the system to fight serial loan defaulters and allows banks to more readily give out loans. As a matter of fact, a bank can now choose to give you a loan without you previously having an account with the bank.  It’s a new dawn in banking industry in the country.