DStv and GOtv subscribers can look forward to a thrilling weekend of European football action, as  SuperSport broadcasts live action from the Premier League and Serie A  from Friday 24 to Sunday 26 July 2020.  The weekend action in the Premier League  is headlined by the meeting of Leicester City and Manchester United at the King Power Stadium on Sunday 26, a key clash in deciding England’s representatives in next season’s UEFA Champions League – as will Chelsea’s clash at home to Wolverhampton Wanderers. The exciting match will air live at 4pm on DStv SuperSport 4 and GOtv SuperSport Select 2  The teams have shown contrasting form since the league’s resumption, with the Foxes struggling to reproduce the form they enjoyed in the first half of the campaign, while the Red Devils have impressed with their consistency and attacking firepower.  The pick of weekend Serie A matches is the meeting of Milan and Atalanta at the iconic San Siro on Friday 24. The Rossoneri are in a scrap to finish in the top six and qualify for next season’s UEFA Europa League, while Atalanta – the great entertainers of Italian football in recent times – are already safe in the knowledge that they will return to the UEFA Champions League next term, but nonetheless looking to end the campaign on a high and lay down a marker for next season. The match will air live at 8:45pm on DStv SuperSport 9 and GOtv SuperSport Select 5  Milan have enjoyed a revival since the end of lockdown – most notably defeating Juventus 4-2 earlier this month – and their clash with La Dea could be an absolute thriller as the 2019-20 Serie A season winds down.  Fans of African football will keep a keen eye out for the clash of Napoli and Sassuolo at Stadio San Paolo on Saturday 25. The match which will air at 8:45pm on DStv SuperSport 9 and on GOtv SuperSport Select 5, will see Senegalese defender Kalidou Koulibaly come up against exciting Ivorian forward Jeremie Boga.  Koulibaly missed the Neapolitans’ 2-1 win at the Mapei Stadium when the teams met back in December 2019 and this time around, he will be eager to keep his fellow West African quiet as he builds toward a likely exit from the club.  The round on Sunday also features Juventus looking to underline their dominance with a home win over Sampdoria and a potential thriller between Roma and Fiorentina at Stadio Olimpico – the teams’ last three meetings across all competitions have produced 17 goals. The match will air live at 8:45pm on DStv SuperSport 9 and on GOtv SuperSport Select 5  Don’t miss the conclusion of the 2019-20 football season on DStv and GOtv. Visit www.dstv.com and www.gotvafrica.com to subscribe or upgrade, and join in on the excitement. And while you’re on the move, you can stream matches on DStv Now.