The Nigerian Communications Commission has noted the inconsistency between the date [17th July, 2020] and the day [Monday], being deadline for submission of the Virtual Hackathon proposals, as stated on the Commission’s website. Arising from this, the deadline for submission is hereby extended to 5pm on Monday, 20th July, 2020. The Nigerian Communications Commission, the Regulator of the Telecommunications Industry in Nigeria, supports amongst other things, the development of Innovative services and Life changing Solutions leveraging on Information Communications Technologies (ICTs) to promote Indigenous Content Development, economic growth and social advancement in Nigeria. Pursuant to this objective, the Commission invites entries from Tech Hubs, Startups and Innovation Digital SMEs with promising and adaptable Digital Solutions that will aid in containing the impacts of pandemic and epidemic-prone diseases in Nigeria to a virtual Hackathon. The top three Startups with the most promising Digital Solutions will receive a grant of N3, 000,000.00 (Three Million Naira) each from the Commission to aid the development and deployment of these Solutions in Nigeria. Requirements Interested applicants will need to have Solutions that address issues in the under listed fields of interest: Evaluation Criteria The criteria for evaluation of the proposed Digital Solutions include the following:  SUBMISSION OF PROPOSAL Submissions will undergo preliminary assessment. The proposals that are adjudged most promising and capable of positively impacting the fight against COVID-19 may be invited for defense of the proposals before a decision is taken on winners. Interested Tech Hubs, Startups and Innovation Digital SMEs are invited to submit soft copies (email to yikabir@ncc.gov.ng; fbruce@ncc.gov.ng; chimezie@ncc.gov.ng) on or before 5pm, Monday 17th July, 2020. Arising from this, the deadline for submission is hereby extended to 5pm on Monday, 20th July, 2020. Please note that all emails should indicate ‘Digital Solutions for Covid-19’ in the subject field. Any proposal submitted after the deadline will be rejected automatically. For more enquiries please contact: 08020978407 or 08036101044