It is with great pleasure that The Convention on Business Integrity/Integrity organisation in collaboration with The Maritime Anti-corruption Network and Siemens AG cordially invite you to a webinar themed above, scheduled to hold on Thursday, July 23rd, 2020. The Integrity Organisation is a Not-for profit organisation founded by His Excellency, Professor Yemi Osinbajo SAN, GCON (Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria) and Mr. Soji Apampa in 1995, and The Convention on Business Integrity in 1997. The objective of the organizations is to get Nigerians to choose integrity over corruption, by doing all we possibly can to illuminate the road to a better society driven by integrity The Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN)—a global business network of over 130 companies working together to tackle corruption in the maritime industry—is expanding its Collective Action initiative in Nigeria with the support of the Siemens Integrity Initiative. The project will be implemented by MACN and the Convention on Business Integrity (CBi) and run from 2020 up to January 2023. Over the coming three years MACN and CBi will enable port users to demand, track, and ensure greater compliance in Nigerian ports, help strengthen government capability to establish compliance systems and collaboration between business, government and civil society. This will create the platform for the cultural changes that are necessary to improve trade flows in and out of Nigeria, and support the social economic growth the Nigerian government is targeting. The goal of the project is to establish more effective seaports and terminals services in Nigeria and adopt corruption prevention practices via improved compliance with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). This initiative would be formally launched at a virtual event (webinar) on July 23rd, 2020. The launch, which would bring together major players and stakeholders in the Maritime sector, would sensitize all the Stakeholders on the initiative, the different platforms and tools for effective implementation as well as reiterate the role of collective action in the successful implementation of the project.  This Launch of the Expansion of MACN’s Collective Action Initiatives will go beyond curbing corruption in Vessel Clearance to include Cargo Clearance Process as well.    The launch would also be an opportunity to introduce and create awareness for the planned activities under this initiative in the next three years. Some of which are:   As a key stakeholder concerned with the issues of the Ports and other related activities of which this discourse is paramount, we humbly request your participation at this webinar scheduled to hold on Thursday, July 23rd, 2020 by 11am.  To participate, kindly register HERE https://www.cbinigeria.com/macn-nigeria-formal-launch/ We would have limited time to address the issues during the webinar and in other to have an organised discourse; we want to encourage our stakeholders to send their questions and comments ahead of time for easy collation to  helpdesk@cbinigeria.com  