Concerned on how to ensure that businesses &  organisations remain relevant and stay afloat amidst and after the global Corona Virus pandemic, the Nigeria Chapter of the global International Advertising Association (IAA), is set to hold a webinar tagged, “Creativity in Crisis: Innovative thinking in Challenging Times”. Scheduled to hold on Tuesday July 28, 2020, the webinar will have the keynote address delivered by the IAA Global Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dagmara Szulce, while Mr. Steve Babaeko, President, Advertising Agencies Association of Nigeria (AAAN); Mr Lanre Adisa, Chief Executive Officer, Noah’s Ark Communications; and Nnenna Onyewuchi, Founder & Director of Strategy, Yellow Brick Road will seat as panelists.  Speaking about the webinar, the Executive Director, IAA Nigeria, Robert Awokuse noted that, “With more challenges facing businesses today following the disruptions that the COVID-19 pandemic has brought, there is a need for creativity and innovative thinking for businesses to survive and thrive”.  Awokuse further noted that, the webinar aims to make participants see that creativity has become imperative because the current crisis must be turned into  pragmatic opportunities through the positive engagement of ground breaking ideas and innovation.  His words;  “Like other countries and businesses, this period apparently is a difficult time in the history of our country, Nigeria and the marketing and communications industry is not left out. However,  more can be done to turn the tide and tramsform this crisis into more opportunities with our creative minds and prowess as creative professionals”.  “Now, more than ever, it is vital that we act as that valued ‘brains trust’ to offer sound strategic and creative works and counsel to our clients/customers and communities who trust our judgment when it comes to brand management. We cannot afford to fail their trust. Therefore we must deliver to remain afloat”, he added.  The International Advertising Association champions the common interests of all the disciplines across the full spectrum of marketing communications ranging from advertisers to media companies, agencies to direct marketing firms, as well as individual practitioners.