 The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, on Friday said the state may record between 90,000 and 120,000 cases when the spread of Coronavirus reaches its peak by July or August. Abayomi disclosed this at a news conference at the state secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja yesterday while giving an update on the spread of the virus in the state. He said the spread of the virus in the state was yet to reach its peak, which will likely be in July or August. Abayomi said that Lagos has ramped testing to reach large number of people in a bid to flatten the curve. He attributed the increase in cases being recorded to the decentralisation of sample collection to the 20 local government areas. According to him, if government had not been proactive, Lagos would have by now recorded 6,000 cases rather than the 1,491 cases it has now. Abayomi disclosed that Alimosho, Oshodi and Isolo have begun to record more COVID-19 cases. He, however, noted that 97 per cent of positive cases at its isolation centres were mild and moderate, adding that only three per cent were severe cases. The commissioner said COVID-19 mortality rate has occurred mainly among males, adding that males with pre-existing ailments such as diabetes, cancer and hypertension are prone to dying. He said 80 people at the State House, Marina, including the governor and his family were tested but only 10 were found to be positive. He said the positive 10 had been taken to isolation centres. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Incident Commander of the Lagos Covid-19 team, yesterday announced the discharge of 42 more patients from the state’s isolation facilities. He said the 42 discharged persons were made up of 22 males and 20 females, all Nigerians. The governor said that 32 patients were discharged from the Eti-Osa (Landmark) Isolation Centre, 8 from Lekki and 2 from Onikan, having fully recovered and tested negative to COVID-19 in two consecutive readings. This brings to 448, the number of #COVID19 confirmed cases that have been successfully managed and discharged in Lagos State Isolation facilities.