 5G does not cause cancer. 5G does not cause coronavirus.  Does anyone claiming that what they are doing about 5G is wrong? They may be wrong out of ignorance, fear, and a desire to make themselves as safe as possible in an uncertain and frightening time. Or they may be some combination of liar, troll, and all-around jerk that enjoy stirring the pot at the one time in recent history when the pot needed stirring the least. We’ve covered how and why 5G doesn’t cause cancer in the past, so we’re not going to spend too much time debating but enlightens general public. We’re going to talk about how 5G networks don’t and can’t cause coronavirus. Are you aware that the 5th Generation (5G) radio standard is comprised of several different components? For your better understanding, 5G can be deployed in existing sub-6GHz spectrum, which is how T-Mobile and most of the rest of the world do it, or in mmWave signals at 20GHz+ frequency ranges. The sub-6GHz spectrum that T-Mobile is using offers range that’s closer to LTE, but only modestly improves on performance. This type of 5G is more like “LTE+” in terms of the performance benefits you’ll gain than anything like the leap from 3G – LTE. What about the other type of 5G, mmWave? Millimeter-wave radiation has some distinct characteristics, all of which can be boiled down into a two-sentence summary: Low, mid, and high band 5G. For instance, the left side is called low band 5G, while the middle is known as mid band 5G, and the right is high band 5G. Understanding how 5G service works comes down to recognizing that all three bands are being used to deliver 5G service, each with its own combination of speed and range.  There are three different versions of 5G that you should know about. While all are accepted as 5G, and they are: Verizon, AT&T and T-Mobile have pledged to use multiple flavors going forward for more robust networks each will give you different experiences. According to the research, the green bar shows 5G’s ability to penetrate anything, including you. 5G can’t penetrate obstacles. What counts as an obstacle? Are things like: Wood, stone, metal, etc. Then you’ve got the less-usual things, including rain, water molecules in the atmosphere more generally, humans, sheets of paper, and transparent glass. If 5G’s obstacle penetration rate is 15-30x worse than LTE’s, you can bet one of the things it literally isn’t penetrating is you. “Higher frequency (shorter wavelength) radiation associated with 5G does not penetrate the body as deeply as frequencies from older technologies, although its effects may be systemic,”  The report further noted that outside of downtown of American metro areas and stadiums, there’s virtually nowhere you can meaningfully benefit from having 5G access. 5G hasn’t even been deployed across most of the United States, which is another reason why it can’t possibly be responsible for a disease outbreak. Most of you don’t have it. AT&T customers, who see “5G E” on their cell phones, don’t worry that’s just a lie AT&T made up and wasn’t punished for. Your “5G E” is exactly the same as everyone else’s “LTE.” Another school of thought have uncovered that the idea that 5G can cause (or exacerbate) a coronavirus infection is just a twist on the idea that cell phones cause cancer. There’s no truth to either. The problem with the 5G argument is that the types of 5G deployed in China versus in the United States, not to mention Europe, are different. European 5G doesn’t use the same frequencies that American 5G does. American 5G is different from Chinese 5G. Phones that support all of the bands in question don’t even exist yet, and 5G deployments in America are tiny. From the research shown that a Singapore-based Broadcom limited was on the threshold of acquired Qualcomm worth of $117 billion for the purposes of takeover which was blocked by the President Donald Triumph saying the Broadcom takeover risked weakening Qualcomm, which would boost China over the United States in the 5G race. That is the genesis of conspiracy theories of why companies like Qualcomm have been caught distributing bad 5G reports in the first place is that existing 5G service just isn’t very good. The experts have already known where coronavirus comes from. They’ve found the animal reservoirs. They’ve identified the source of the outbreak and, in many cases, traced local infections back to specific individuals or group events. The idea that 5G could cause coronavirus outbreaks are being generated by trolls and liars, aided by frightened people who don’t understand how this entire works. Don’t be fooled. The problem with 5G is that 5G is a lousy idea and a bad economic deal for most people right now. It doesn’t cause cancer. It doesn’t cause coronavirus, either.

But hilariously this might not continue to be true. If Americans remain stuck at home and reliant on broadband service, it’s potentially possible that others would see companies respond to this by building out more capacity in local homes and areas. In some places, especially cities, 5G might be an effective short-range backhaul. If companies knew that people were mostly working from home, they might be more willing to build these deployments at the scale required to make them affordable. 5G doesn’t cause coronavirus but there’s a chance that coronavirus could cause 5G (deployments). “Telecom giant Huawei has signed over 50 commercial 5G contracts, more than its closest competitors Nokia and Ericsson dropping Qualcomm. The company recently said it’s already working on 6G.”  According to Investopedia report, the race to see which country will have the best 5G network has begun in earnest. Communication service providers around the world are battling one another to build-out, validate, and deploy commercial 5G networks. What’s at stake in the 5G race? According to estimates published in an Informa Tech research paper, 5G technology could be responsible for 22.3 million jobs and $13.2 trillion of global economic output by 2035 Experts advice to protect yourself and home with the EMF Home Adaptor if need be. The said Home Adaptor will correct the 5G or 4G signal going to devices like a tablet in your home.   As of December 12, 2019, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Taiwan and the U.S. have decided to ban and phase out the company’s products within their mobile networks. Meanwhile, the UK has banned the company from contributing core parts to 5G technology, cutting Huawei’s share in the country’s new network to 35 percent  South Korea, China, and the United States are the countries that lead the world in building and deploying 5G technology. Telecommunications operators around the world—including AT&T Inc., KT Corp, and China Mobile—have been racing to build the fifth-generation (5G) of wireless technology.  Telecom giant Huawei has signed over 50 commercial 5G contracts, more than its closest competitors Nokia and Ericsson. The company recently said it’s already working on 6G.  There are really only four companies in the world making 5G chips: Qualcomm from US, MediaTek, Samsung and Huawei. Samsung and Huawei from China largely only use their 5G chips in their own devices (though a new phone from Vivo will use Samsung’s Exynos 5G modem) 