 The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria has cautioned Nigeria against taking loans from China. The union stated this in a recent Sallah message jointly signed by the President, TUC, Quadri Olaleye, and the Secretary General, Musa-Lawal Ozigi. The message read in part, “We wish to state here that we are against getting loans from China. Some African countries have rejected their loan offers because of the conditions attached. Why is ours different? We must be circumspect. “There is no free lunch even in Freetown. We are yet to see what was done with the collected loans, repatriated monies, donations and grants. This is not the time to spend on frivolities.” Speaking further, the TUC called on the federal and other tiers of government to rise up to the task of rebuilding the economy especially after the damage done by the COVID-19 pandemic. It stated, “We call on the Federal Government and other tiers of government to rise up to the task of rebuilding the economy; deal with the issue of tribalism, nepotism, corruption, religious intolerance that plagued the country before now. “The COVID-19 was just an additional plague. If we miss the opportunity of redirecting our affairs now, we may never get it right again. “As a people, we must all submit ourselves to the will of the Almighty God, knowing that He alone can help us to overcome the present challenges no matter how thorny or weighty they may appear at the moment.” Reflecting on the Ramadan season, the union noted that it was a moment for sober reflection, calling on all Muslim faithful to be sober because of the situation of the celebration at a time the pandemic was ravaging the whole world. It said, “The TUC celebrates with Muslim faithful and enjoins them to have a sober reflection because of the challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has not only claimed lives but also collapsed the world economy. In order to forge ahead as a country, the TUC emphasised peace and a corruption-free society as well as love to fellow Nigerians, irrespective of religious inclination. It advised against allowing corruption, greed and avarice, saying that these vices had brought the economy and Nigerians to their knees.