The Director General of the Nigerian Association of Chambers Of Commerce, Industry,  Mines and Agriculture, NACCIMA, Amb Ayo Olukanni, has commended the speech by President Muhammadu Buhari, on 27th April on  Gradual Winding of Lockdown and new strategies to combat the Spead of Covid 19.   In his comment, Olukanni welcomed the nation wide address during which Buhari announced the gradual Winding down of lockdown in the face of COVID-19 and the strategic approach to combat the Spread of Covid 19 in our country. According to him, “He has indeed struck the right balance: the need to ease the lockdowns in some state to prevent total destruction of our  businesses and our economy  and the very important need to continue adherence to various protocols that will help to curb the spread of the disease such as social distancing, restriction on large gathering and wide use of face mask hence forth. As the concern state with effect from May 4 starts gradual opening we suggest this be done in a careful manner to prevent a resurgence. “His comments to give special attention and support some states such as Kano that appears to be facing serious challenge is equally desirable. Because no state should and can be left behind in our determined efforts to rid our country of the scourge of the Corona virus. These are indeed right steps in the right direction and we welcome them all. Of significance in the address is also directives by Mr President  to the CBN and other financial institutions to make plan and provision for financial stimulus packages for SMEs in view of their critical role. Chambers members across the countries welcome these stimulus packages some of which have been put together especially by the  CBN and others which will eventually come up. We however  also want to  call on respective authorities administering and  that will administer these Financial stimulus packages to allow  easier access and early disbursement of the funds once the Applicants can prove their own credibility and track record.  In this regard we call on Chambers members to take advantage of the opportunities under the National Collateral Registry (NCR) to register their moveable assets to enable prospective applicants avail themselves of the opportunities available under and through the NCR at this period.We also recommend sector specific stimulus packages by relevant institutions as government starts a review of  the budget in the face of the free fall of oil prices and loss of revenue.” Furthermore he said the stimulus packages also deserved the attention of we  the Economic Sustainability Committee which the VP is chairing especially as the Committee ruminate of the Post Covid era. He used the opportunity  to salute the PTF on Covid 19, the  NCDC and our health workers who are in the forefront of the fight against Covid 19. We pray and look forward to an end to the Pandemic soon.