Tincan Island Port Deploys “Time Release Study Tool” For Trade Facilitation And Revenue Generation; Collects One Hundred And Seventeen Billion, Eight Hundred And Thirty-Nine Million, Four Hundred And Eighteen Thousand, Three Hundred And Thirty-Two Naira And Sixteen Kobo (N117,839,418,332.16) Between January through to April 2020.The Tincan Island Port Customs Command has beefed up its Trade Facilitation process with the deployment of “TIME RELEASE STUDY TOOL” for strategic planning in determining the actual time required for the Release and Clearance of goods, right from the time of arrival to physical release from Customs Control.  This among other measures was confirmed by the Customs Area Controller in a chat with some Stakeholders in his office recently.  The CAC recalled that Time Release Study (TRS) is a strategic tool that is capable of identifying bottlenecks in the trade Value Chain and creating an enabling environment for effectiveness and efficiency in Operations. It is on the strength of this and other parameters that the Command was able to generated a total of One Hundred and Seventeen Billion, Eight Hundred and Thirty-Nine Million, Four Hundred and Eighteen Thousand, Three Hundred and Thirty-Two Naira and Sixteen Kobo 0117,839,418,332.16) Between January — April 2020, despite the Global Pandemic which has posed a great  challenge.  The figure is against the sum of One Hundred and Six Billion, Six Hundred and Forty-Four Million, Six Hundred and Forty-Three Thousand, Nine Hundred and Seventeen Naira and Twenty-Five Kobo (N106,644,643,917.25)  generated same period in 2019, reflecting a difference of  Eleven Billion, One Hundred and Ninety-Four Million, Seven Hundred and Seventy-Four Thousand, Four Hundred and Fourteen Naira and Ninety-One Kobo 011,194,774,414.91).  While responding to issues bothering on challenges amidst the Covid-19, the Comptroller reiterated the readiness of the Command to ensure adherence and compliance with the extant protocols by Nigeria Centre for Disease Control IN :DC) and World Health Organization (WHO) towards containing the Spread of the Virus.  He disclosed that prior to the declaration of the Virus as a Pandemic Disease,  the  Command  had  conducted  series  of Seminars  and  awareness campaign, targeted at sensitizing the officers/men as well as Stakeholders on measures to adopt in dealing with the menace. These measures according to the CAC would be sustained even after the Post Covid-19 era. “Even  at the  onset  of this  Pandemic when  pressure,  anxiety and general apprehension was the order of the day, the Command demonstrated resilience, sagacity and compassion in its approach to the novel Pandemic, such that tension was reduced from the psyche of the operatives  with confidence inspired that enabled them to attend to their functions without let or hindrance”.  “With this Pandemic, the Command will upscale her sensitization on the need for Nigerians to fully take advantage of the operations in Export Trade, especially at this moment when it has become compelling for diversification of the Economy for National Development”. According to the statement released and endorsed by UCHE EJESIEME, Command Public Relations Officer of the command saying We use this medium to remind Nigerians to cease the opportunity of the numerous incentives by the Federal Government in the area of Export, to draw and attract the consciousness of Nigerians to the advantages in Export Trade”.  With the Time Release Studies Tool, we have generated statistical data on the actual time declarations were made up till the time of Release from Customs Control.  It is on the basis of this, that the Command realized that the Nigeria Customs Service is only involved in two major functions in the Trade Value Chain (Examination and Release of Cargo) from Customs Control.   The unwavering commitment of the Command necessitated the need to work assiduously towards  ensuring that all operational bottlenecks are removed from the Value Chain, for effectiveness and efficiency in accordance with Global Standards.  The Command will continue to support and encourage the culture of compliance with Fiscal and Monetary Policies, while also rewarding compliant traders. We have developed a framework and different layers for channeling of official complaints, including the Help Desk for speedy Resolution of Trade Disputes.  Efforts are also being made to ensure continuous “Stakeholder Engagement” and collaboration for the actualizations of the joint responsibilities of creating a friendly business environment that will encourage trade and investments as well as boost the morale of Stakeholders. Speaking further, the CAC noted that inspite of the few challenges mitigating against the performance, he pointed out that the Command will not let its guards down in the pursuance of its official mandate.  He appreciated the support and counsel from the Customs Management led by Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd) and his Management, while also applauding the renewed enthusiasm of the officers/men which is evidenced in the operational profile of the Command.   “The CAC, equally eulogized heads of Security and Regulatory Agencies in the Port for their consistent efforts at supporting the Command in realizing its statutory mandate.”  “Also commended the Maritime Media both Print, Electronic and Online for their quality reportage of the happenings in the Sector”  Generally  speaking,  the  CAC  thanked  the  Stakeholders  for  their  continuous engagement  with  the  Command  and  requested  the  strengthening  of  the collaboration.    