Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Friday extended the lockdown of the state by one week from May 4 to 11, 2020. Abiodun also extended the relaxation period from seven to 10 hours. The governor said this in a broadcast at his office in Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. He said his decision was in line with the order of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Buhari had in his presidential broadcast announced a curfew to be imposed on  Ogun, Lagos and the Federal Capital Territory between 8pm and 6am from May 4. But Abiodun explained that the lockdown would be relaxed gradually through the 10-hour  relaxation window. He added “In line with Mr President’s address to the entire nation, the lockdown is still in place.  However, the lockdown will begin to be relaxed gradually and in phases from Monday, May 4, in consideration of the peculiarity of the different states. “To this end, our relaxation window remains Monday, May 4, Wednesday, May 6, and Friday, May 8. The new time frame will, however, now be from 7am to 5pm on those days. This will give our people ample time to conduct necessary economic activities and to get to their various homes before the commencement of the daily curfew as directed by Mr President. “For the avoidance of doubt, the curfew is from 8pm to 6am every day and will be strictly enforced.” On the increase in the confirmed cases of COVID-19 to 56, Abiodun explained that the state currently had 47 cases while eight persons had been discharged. He said, “Out of these, eight have been discharged to rejoin their families and restart normal life, while we have 47 active cases who are currently receiving efficient treatment from our medical officers. We hope and pray that they will also be discharged in due course. The governor said the use of a face mask in public is compulsory. He said, “We have procured over one million face masks that we are distributing across the state to groups such as market women, artisans, transport unions, law enforcement agencies, civil servants and religious groups among others. Nevertheless, everybody has a personal responsibility to procure and wear a face mask.”