……MTN Nigeria has recorded an additional 4.2 million mobile subscribers in the first quarter of 2020, as its service revenue soared 16.7 per cent to hit N328.5 billion in the period.  MTN says it has started re-opening its network of 410 stores nationwide, subject to strict measures being put in place to enhance the safety of customers and staff.
Around 80% of MTN’s stores began trading on May 1, with all stores across the network open for trading from yesterday, it said in a statement. Limited trading hours, a strictly controlled shift system, 2m social distancing barrier markings, and regular health-checks are among the key proactive measures MTN has put in place. “Our focus is on continuing to give customers all the support they need to stay connected to their friends and family. Of course, safety is of paramount importance and we ask all customers going into our stores to please adhere to the protocols in place to help them, and our employees, to stay safe,” said Jacqui O’Sullivan, executive for corporate affairs at MTN. All measures comply with the specific conditions set out by the National Coronavirus Command Council and the Department of Health. Additional actions include limiting the number of items than can be touched in the store. All display items like handsets, other devices, accessories, starter packs and Y’ello Trader booklets will be removed from the front of the store and touchscreens will be switched off. Biometric devices will be sanitised with alcohol swabs before and after every use, and employees will not be required to handle customer credit cards. In addition, employees will be provided with hand sanitisers, reusable masks and face screens/ visors. Employees’ temperatures will be monitored daily, using infrared thermometers, and vulnerable staff (for example, those who are pregnant or have chronic health conditions) will continue to work from home. Other processes to enhance safety include limiting trading hours – until 5pm from Monday to Friday, and stores will only be open until 1pm on Saturdays and Sundays. Limited support personnel will be allowed in each store, and two store shifts will be implemented to alternate between working in-store and working from home. However, customers will still be able to receive the support they need across prepaid and contract services, airtime and data bundle sales, MoMo services, device sales, and sim swaps. Read: Vodacom launches 5G mobile network in Joburg, Pretoria and Cape Town – check if you have coverage in your area Headline MTN In the sane vein, Telecoms giant, MTN Nigeria has recorded an additional 4.2 million mobile subscribers in the first quarter of 2020, as its service revenue soared 16.7 per cent to hit N328.5 billion in the period. In its latest figures representing the Q1’2020 operation, the teleco reported that amidst growing concerns surrounding the effect of COVID-19 on businesses on the continent, it had 68.5 million telephone customers and active data users went up by 1.7 million to 26.8 million. However, MTN says its digital revenue grew by 63.7 per cent, while fintech was up by 36.1 per cent, with an improvement in the uptake of its digital offerings within the three months. In a filing at the Nigeria Stock Exchange on which the telecoms giant is listed, MTN says the digital business returned to growth, “with revenue increasing 63.7 per cent, supported by its portfolio of digital products and services, and improvement in the customer journey experience. “There was an improvement in the uptake of digital offerings, and efforts to expand the active user base for the digital business continued to yield positive results. During the quarter, 1.6 million new users were added, bringing the active base for digital subscriptions to 3.8 million users,” it stated. Similarly, MTN recorded fintech revenue growth was 36.1 per cent in the first quarter of 2020, , 10.8 per cent higher than the previous quarter, which it says was driven by an increase in the adoption of MTN Xtratime, an airtime lending service. “70,000 Mobile Money (MoMo) agents were added in the quarter, bringing the total number of registered agents to 178,000 nationwide. The total volume of transactions processed by agents during the quarter was over 5.6 million, about 80 per cent of which were airtime vending. “Transaction fees for all money transfers using the MoMo agent network were suspended for an initial period of one month starting 23 March 2020, as part of the Y’ello Hope Package,” it says. Further, MTN says its enterprise business in Nigeria continued to improve, with revenue growth of 12.7 per cent. “Enterprise business includes revenue from mobile and fixed connectivity, cloud and ICT solutions, and devices. It cuts across voice, data and digital services for SMEs, public sector and large enterprise customers.” Commenting on the performance, Ferdi Moolman, MTN Nigeria chief executive officer said “This performance was achieved against the backdrop of several developments during the quarter. The value-added tax was increased in February 2020 from five per cent to 7.5 per cent, which adversely affected both revenue and costs. “The situation has been exacerbated by upheavals in the global oil market, which put significant downward pressure on oil prices, leading to an exchange rate adjustment by the Central Bank of Nigeria on 20 March 2020, increasing some of our costs.” In addition, he said a series of lockdown measures began being implemented globally in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in significant operational challenges and supply chain disruptions. Moolman explained that MTN has contributed N1 billion to the Coalition Against COVID-19, a private-sector task force working to increase public awareness and provide food relief to 1.7 million households nationwide. “In addition, MTN customers have been granted free daily access to key health-related Web sites, and fees for local money transfers via the MoMo Agent Network have been waived. “Finally, to ensure the most vulnerable and marginalised communities are not left behind, 300 free SMSes were provided per customer for one month in the first instance. To date, more than a billion free messages have been sent,” he said. MTN regained its footing in Nigeria in 2019, after years of continuous litigation. The telco had endured long-running court battles with authorities.