WOWBii Interactive, Africa’s first Original Equipment Manufacturer of Interactive Flat Panel Displays (IFDP) is working with Nigerian State Governors to establish virtual meetings with immersive collaboration capabilities reducing the need to travel out of their different domains. WOWBii is achieving this through its Wowbudd platform, which offers technology-enhanced solutions that enable face-to-face interactive telepresence, in-room and virtual annotation and wireless casting, with added digital signage solutions to create Situation Rooms or Command Centers for Executive Governors to remain in Business-As-Usual mode despite the global pandemic. The WOWBii Interactive’s Wowbudd is a futuristic platform which connects seamlessly with legacy Unified Communication solution kits making it a truly outstanding, hassle-free touch centre for multiple teams and locations. This intervention provided exclusively by WOWBii is necessary to mitigate effects of cessation or limitation of physical contacts, in line with World Health Organisation’s (WHO) social distancing recommendation, and to flatten the growth curve of the lethal coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Beyond this, the adoption of immersive virtual meetings and digital interactions have been an evolving paradigm within global businesses and leading government establishments, who are aligning with operational best practice in collaborative interactivities and video conferencing. Already, the Office of the Vice President runs its virtual meetings on this indigenous product as an innovative solution to the pandemic crisis, while Borno, Nasarawa, Lagos and Plateau States have completed the installation of the WOWBii equipment. Other Nigerian states are in line for installation of the WOWBii infrastructure. Mrs. Terae Onyeje, Chief Executive Officer and co-Founder of WOWBii Interactive, said; “the COVID-19 pandemic is accelerating the adoption of immersive virtual interactivity in Nigeria. We are pleased that the Federal and State Governments are using these times to embrace and entrench tech-innovations in governance. “We are pleased to be an indigenous market leader in this space and being a beacon of transformation in the public sector and enterprise. WOWBii is in the frontline for creating the readiness and capabilities of corporate enterprises, state Governments and other government institutions, to achieve virtual interactions, business collaborations and effective meetings, through an African brand created by Africans.” WOWBii Interactive provides its solutions to a vast number of African corporates including MTN Nigeria, MTN Cameroon, Ecobank Ghana, Ecobank Togo, Chevron, Union Bank, Baker Hughes, UBA, Access Bank, GE, KPMG, Total CPFA, ARM, Mainstream Energy.