There is strong indication that activities in the banking industry will be upbeat when captains of the industry and leaders of thought in the economy gather in Lagos on Saturday, October 24, 2020 by 11.00am as The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria confers fellowship on distinguished bankers.  The President, African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Adewunmi Adesina, the Governor, Bank of Sierra Leone, Professor Kelfala M. Kallon;  the President, West African Bankers Association and President Liberia Bankers Association, Mr.John Davies III; the GMD/CEO, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Dr. Demola Sogunle, HCIB; the MD/CEO, Zenith Bank Plc, Mr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu, HCIB, the MD/CEO, WEMA Bank Plc, Mr. Ademola Adebise, HCIB, the MD/CEO, Sterling Bank Plc,  Mr. Abubakar Suleiman, HCIB; the MD/CEO, Providus Bank Plc, Mr. Walter Akpani, HCIB, the MD/CEO, Standard Chartered Bank Limited;  Mr. Lamin Manjang, HCIB, the MD/CEO, Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria, Mr Arc Ahmed Musa Dangiwa, HCIB, the MD/CEO, Nova Merchant Bank Ltd, Anya Duroha, HCIB, the Board Member, Lead Capital Group of Companies, Prince Bimbo Olashore, the Board Member, Oodua Investment Company Limited,  Otunba Bimbo Ashiru, Former DMD Diamond Bank, Mrs Caroline Anyanwu, and Former Executive Director, Fidelity Bank, Mrs Ugochukwu Chijioke, top the honours list of eminent bankers who will be formally conferred with the prestigious Fellowship of the Institute.  Out of the 201 awardees to be honored at the Balmoral Convention Centre, Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nineteen (19) would be Honorary Fellows and 77 Associates will become Elected Fellows while 105 Senior Management staff of banks and the academia will become Honorary Senior Members of the Institute. According to a statement by the Head of Corporate Communication & External Relation of the Institute, Mr. Nelson Olagundoye, the honour is in recognition of the awardees’ meritorious services, commitment to professional responsibilities and valuable contributions to the industry in particular and the economy.  The gathering will reflect on the theme: “Financial Services in a post COVID 19 Environment: Strategic Imperative:”  In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, this year’s edition of the Investiture, will be executed using the hybrid of virtual and physical platforms, with strict adherence to the COVID-19 Safety protocols.  The event which will have His Excellency, Emmanuel Udom, Executive Governor, Akwa Ibom State as the Special Guest of Honour and Mr. Ernest Ebi, FCIB, Former Deputy Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria as the Chairman is expected to attract stakeholders in the industry including captains of industry, top government and diplomatic officials, financial decision makers, top management staff of banks, members of the academia, professional institutions, senior members as well as  well- wishers  The President/Chairman of Council of The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, Mr. Bayo Olugbemi, FCIB will be the Chief Host at the occasion and will be ably supported by Dr. Kenneth Opara, Ph.D, FCIB, 1st Vice President / Chairman Board of Fellows and Practice Licence and Mr. Seye Awojobi, Registrar/Chief Executive