–Says peace key to socio-economic development The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has met with some Salafiyyah clerics as he rounded off his two-day working visit to Kano State at the weekend.L-R: Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman, NCC; Sheik Abdulwahab Abdallah, one of the leader of Sallafiya Muslims Community, Kano and Hon. Kawu Sumaila, former Senior Special Assistant to President on National Assembly Matters during the EVC’s visit to the Sheikh Abdallah in Kano. :  Danbatta’s last port of call during the visit was his meeting with one of the leaders of Salafiyya Muslims in the state, Sheik Abdulwahab Abdallah on the evening of Sunday, October 25, 2020. During the visit to the cleric, Danbatta commended the Ahlussunnah Muslims for being at the forefront of ensuring a peaceful and harmonious relationship with other religious groups in the state. READ ALSO THIS: NCC to challenge new financial technologies and electronic innovations in financial system – Danbatta Danbatta said the task of ensuring a peaceful nation is everybody’s business, adding that all socioeconomic activities can only thrive in an atmosphere of peace, tranquillity and harmony. Citing  a case with telecoms sector, the EVC said “With peaceful coexistence, we will achieve faster  development across all the sectors of the economy. For instance, telecoms investors will be more encouraged to deploy telecom infrastructure that will enhance telecoms services delivery in an area that is peaceful and devoid of criminal activities.” He charged the clerics to use their reverent positions as religious leaders to be promoters of peaceful intra and inter-faith coexistence in the state. It would be recalled that the NCC boss started a two-day working visit to his home state on Saturday, October 24, 2020, during which he paid courtesy visits to prominent leaders in the state, including the Emir of Kano, Alh. Aminu Ado Bayero; and Emir of Bichi, Alh. Nasir Ado Bayero. He also took message of hope to the leader of Kadiriyya Sufi Order, Sheikh Kariballah Nasiru Kabara at his residence and the Tijanniyah Sufi Order after which he met with business communities in the state.