Following her appointment as Director General of the Jigawa State Investment Promotion Agency, Mrs. Furera Isma Jumare has resigned her role as Independent Non-Executive Director on the Board of Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. This in line with regulatory guidelines precluding certain categories of public servants from serving on boards of banks and other financial institutions.  Commenting on the Mrs. Jumare’s resignation, Board Chair, Mrs. Beatrice Hamza-Bassey, said: “Since joining the Board in May 2017, Furera has been an invaluable voice in the Boardroom. Her experience and professional counsel directly contributed to our wins in recent years and in helping us navigate challenging times. She also served studiously as the Chair of the Board Governance Committee and Member of the Board Audit and Risk Management Committees. On behalf of the Board, I thank her for her diligent service and wish her much success as she answers the call of service to her State.”  Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Emeka Emuwa, said: “Furera’s appointment is a clear acknowledgement of her experience and accomplishments in her long career including in her role as Director with Union Bank. The Board and Management are grateful for her service and wish her the best in her new role.”  Mrs. Jumare’s resignation is effective immediately.  About Union Bank Plc. Established in 1917 and listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1971, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. is a household name and one of Nigeria’s long-standing and most respected financial institutions. The Bank is a trusted and recognisable brand, with an extensive network of over 240 sales and service centers and over 977 automated teller machines spread across Nigeria. branches across Nigeria. In late 2012, a new Board of Directors and Executive Management team were appointed to Union Bank and in 2014 the Bank began executing a transformation programme to re-establish it as a highly respected provider of quality financial services. The Bank currently offers a variety of banking services to both individual and corporate clients including current, savings and deposit account services, funds transfer, foreign currency domiciliation, loans, overdrafts, equipment leasing and trade finance. The Bank also offers its customers convenient electronic banking channels and products including Online Banking, Mobile Banking, Debit Cards, ATMs and POS Systems. More information can be found at:  www.unionbankng.com 