In line with its annual tradition of bolstering  Nigeria’s Marketing communications industry by bringing together seasoned analysts and minds to crack some puzzles facing brand Nigeria, Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria (BJAN),  the association of brand writers and analysts in the country, would be holding her 2020  Conference in Lagos State  this November.The annual conference which is the 8th in series is scheduled to hold on November 27, 2020 at The Sojourner By Genesis Hotel, GRA-Ikeja, Lagos. Just like all previous, this year’s conference is structured for the express purpose of collating, analysing and aggregating all shades of opinions, ideas, suggestions and thoughts that will return Brand Nigeria to a sustainable path of greatness as the economy gradually opens up after months of near-total lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. This year’s theme, ‘’Consolidating Nigeria’s Agricultural Revolution: Challenges, Opportunities and Lessons’’ was carefully crafted to drive effective deliberations.  It will be discussed by seasoned and experienced professionals and academics. Just like last year, observers believe that this year’s speakers will deliver thought provoking presentations that can raise the consciousness of the nation in all ramifications. Over a thousand online and live participants from different sectors are expected to grace the occasion. According to Princewill Ekwujuru, Chairman, Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria (BJAN), “Our plan at this year’s conference is to brainstorm on the imperatives in developing our very vibrant agricultural sector, utilizing various techniques in value chain development to grow agriculture infrastructure and create big brands that will jump-start the much desired industrialisation Nigeria needs for her economic development and expansion”. To facilitate this, Dr. Emmanuel Ijewere, Vice President, Nigeria Agribusiness Group has been invited to deliver the main paper of the conference. The panel of discussants that will dissect the paper presented by the guest speaker include: Dr. Tunji Owoeye, President, Rice Millers Importers and Distributors Association of Nigeria; Otunba Femi Oke, Vice President, West, All Farmers Association of Nigeria; Mr. Ade Adefeko, Vice President, Olam Nigeria; Mr. Segun Atho, National Deputy president, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria and Mr. Tunde Okoya, Vice President, Cold Chain Association of Nigeria. Other commentators include: Mr. Richard Mark Mbaram, Senior Special Adviser to Minister of Agriculture on Communication, Mr. Aliyu Abdulhameed, Managing Director/CEO, Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), Mr. Thomas Oloriegbe, Managing Director/CEO, NOSAK Group and Mr. Paul Gbededo, Group Managing Director, Flour Mills of Nigeria. A seasoned brand analyst, Kayode Olagesin, Managing Director/CEO, Towncriers Limited would be the Moderator of the event. An awards ceremony is scheduled to kick off immediately after the conference lecture at the same venue. In line with current trends, there would be a hybrid of virtual and live attendance for the conference.  The event will attract a live audience of about 200 socially- distanced persons that will be composed of about 50  brand Journalists, students from various tertiary institutions and professionals institutions like APCON, NIPR, NIMN, NIJ as well as industry professionals, government officials and brand manager. A larger audience of thousands of students, young professionals, industry players and observers will join across the globe readers via zoom and other social media platforms. Commenting on the what the association hopes to achieve an the end of this loaded programme, Lukman Ishau, Secretary of the association said, “It is our belief that at the end of this conference, we will generate germane ideas that economic planners, both at the state and national levels, can draw from, to push brand Nigeria to the next level”