Our determination to drive broadband access, we have six (6) licensed INFRACOs, with one in each geo-political zone of the country.The Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) said it became imperative for the Commission to introduce drastic measures aimed at providing proper regulatory framework for the industry and also to ensure that Nigerian subscribers receive value for money. We set out to license Infrastructure companies (INFRACOs) with the sole purpose of bridging these existing gaps. The Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, Professor Umar  Danbatta in a Keynote Address at The National Information Technology Reporters Association (NITRA) Virtual Innovative Tech Forum Webinar disclosed that in line with our determination to drive broadband access, we have six (6) licensed INFRACOs, with one in each geo-political zone of the country. Lagos State receives special recognition and possesses its own license because of its commercial centrality to the country. The seventh license for the North-Central region is being processed. According to EVC’s keynote address “The NCC is in the process of executing the counterpart Funding Agreements with licensed INFRACOs to facilitate increase in fibre deployment around the country to enhance the digital transformation agenda of the Federal Government. These timely measures have been very instrumental to the survival of SMEs that have had to ride on the backbone of Telecoms infrastructure in order to survive the pandemic, he added. “As a fall out of the pandemic many of us have been forced to work from home; government services have moved to online portals; our kids now attend virtual classes; lectures and conferences are now virtual; e-commerce has seen a significant boom globally; online payment for goods and services have now increased threefold; logistics and delivery businesses have seen huge surge in demand for their services. All of the above require reliable means of connectivity and the NCC has continued to work vigorously with industry partners and stakeholders in ensuring that the nation’s ICT infrastructure is able to meet increasing demand for connectivity. The 2020 National Information Technology Reporters Association (NITRA) Virtual Innovative Tech Webinar gathered experts in the field of storytelling. “I must commend the members of NITRA from across the country for their continuous coverage and reportage of the Commission’s activities adding that this innovative Tech Forum is another avenue for us to intimate your members and the general public about the NCC’s plans for an economic reboot following disruptions caused by the global Covid-19 pandemic. EVC remind members of NITRA that their role has been critical in informing the public about the various policies implemented by the Commission that subsequently prepared the industry for such an unpredictable pandemic. Prof Danbatta delivered his keynote address on the topic: “Multi-Stakeholder Approach to National Recovery Post-Pandemic”, saying there is no better time than now to talk about NCC’s preparedness in addressing the prevailing situation. “I would like to share some perspectives with you on my Strategic Vision Plan (The 8-point agenda) on assumption of office as the Chief Executive/CEO in 2015, was the beginning of our roadmap into preparing Nigeria’s ICT industry for turbulent times and mitigating the adverse effects of any unforeseen developments on the Nigerian economy. We did so, mindful of the role that that the telecommunications sector plays in the development of our economy, and since then we have guided our regulatory efforts to ensure the sustained growth of the sector. 