…Aigbe Emerges Outstanding Corporate Communications Personality Fidelity Bank Plc has added yet another accolade to its burgeoning collection of awards. The bank, in recognition of its unflinching support for Micro Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in the country, clinched the award for the ‘Outstanding SME Supporting Bank of the Year’ at the 2020 Marketing & Advertising Award for Excellence ceremony which held on Friday at the D’Podium International Centre in Lagos. According to the organizers, Marketing Edge, the bank’s nomination and subsequent emergence as an award recipient were a product of a review and assessment of its intervention and provision of long-term financing support for MSMEs across the country. Receiving the award on behalf of the bank, Divisional Head, Brand & Communications, Mr. Charles Aigbe thanked the management of Marketing Edge for the recognition. “Our long-running support for the growth and development of small businesses in Nigeria stems from our recognition of SMEs as critical agents of economic development and transformation in Nigeria and the world at large.”  He noted that the bank had developed a strong multifaceted SME banking platform, driven by its tailored, low cost transactions banking offerings backed by the requisite one-on-one and cluster focused advisory services and hand-holding support. Also, on the night, Aigbe was honored as the Outstanding Corporate Communications Personality of the Year’. He was bestowed with the award, in recognition of his contributions to the growth, development and continuing evolution of the Nigerian marketing and brand management business even in the face of daunting challenges. Marketing Edge, one of Nigeria’s foremost Brand and Marketing Communications publication, also acknowledged the huge strides that the bank has made in product development, brand recognition and reputation as well as integrated marketing communications credentials. L-R: Head, Corporate Communications, Fidelity Bank Plc, Ejike Ndiulo; Head, Events, Business & Promotions, Fidelity Bank Plc, Harriba Harry-Pepple; Divisional Head, Brand and Communications, Fidelity Bank Plc, Charles Aigbe; at the 2020 Marketing & Advertising Award for Excellence in Lagos where Fidelity Bank emerged the Outstanding SME Supporting Bank of the year  L-R: Head, Corporate Communications, Fidelity Bank Plc, Ejike Ndiulo; Head, Events, Business & Promotions, Fidelity Bank Plc, Harriba Harry-Pepple; Managing Director/ CEO, Television Continental (TVC), Andrew Hanlon ; Team Members, Brand and Communications, Ann Obiakor and Chinyere Irechukwu; all of Fidelity Bank when Fidelity Bank won the Outstanding SME Supporting Bank of the year 2020 at the Marketing & Advertising Award for Excellence in Lagos recently  Managing Director, New Telegraph Newspaper, Ayodele Aminu; Team Members, Brand and Communications, Chinyere Irechukwu; Ann Obiakor; Head, Events, Business & Promotions, Harriba Harry-Pepple; Divisional Head, Brand and Communications, Charles Aigbe; Head, Corporate Communications, Ejike Ndiulo; Team Members, Brand and Communications, Adetayo Shofodunrin; Benedict Uzor; all of Fidelity Bank Plc when Aigbe emerged Outstanding Corporate Communications Personality of the year 2020 at the 2020 Marketing & Advertising Award for Excellence in Lagos recently. Divisional Head, Brand and Communications, Fidelity Bank Plc, Charles Aigbe at the 2020 Marketing & Advertising Award for Excellence in Lagos where he was awarded the Outstanding Corporate Communications Personality of the year.