The weekend is booked for sports fans with the best live football action on SuperSport for DStv and GOtv subscribers. Matches are scheduled for 2 to 4 October, 2020. Top on Premier League this weekend is the meeting of Manchester United and Tottenham Hotspur at Old Trafford, on Sunday 4 October at 4:30pm live on SS Premier league. With Jose Mourinho coming up against another of his former teams, United are unbeaten in their last three matches against Tottenham, though the pressure will be on the hosts to put in a better showing at Old Trafford compared to their last home match, which ended in a surprise 3-1 loss at the hands of Crystal Palace.  Elsewhere on Saturday 3 October, a fascinating tactical battle awaits in the meeting of Leeds United and Manchester City at Elland Road at 5:30pm on SS Premier League. Citizens boss Pep Guardiola is an unabashed fan of his counterpart Marcelo Bielsa. At 12:30pm Chelsea will clash with Crystal Palace, Everton vs Brighton & Hove Albion at 3pm and Newcastle United vs Burnley at 8p all on SS Premier League.  The premier League continues on Sunday 4 October with Leicester City vs West Ham United and Southampton vs West Bromwich Albion both at 12pm, Arsenal vs Sheffield United and Wolverhampton Wanderers vs Fulham both at 2pm and Aston Villa vs Liverpool at 7:15pm. All on SS Premier League and SS Football.  This round of La Liga’s top flight matches will see the top clash of Barcelona and Sevilla at the Camp Nou, on Sunday at 8pm on SS La Liga. These teams have traditionally produced high-scoring affairs in recent seasons, though post-lockdown they played out a 0-0 draw in June.  Another must see clash is between Atletico Madrid and Villarreal, as Atletico Madrid hosts Villarreal at Estadio Wanda Metropolitano on Saturday at 3pm on SS La Liga, with two of Africa’s foremost players – Ghanaian midfielder Thomas Partey and Nigerian winger Samuel Chukwueze – going head-to-head.  More on La Liga this weekend, Real Valladolid vs Eibar at 12pm, Real Sociedad vs Getafe at 5:30pm, Elche vs Huesca also at 5:30pm and Valencia will be hosting Real Betis at Mestalla at 8pm all on SS GOtv La Liga.  On Sunday 4 October on SS GOtv La Liga, we will see, Alaves take on Athletic Bilbao at 1pm, Osasuna vs Celta Vigo at 11am, while at 3pm, Levante will battle Real Madrid, Cadiz will take on Granada at 5:30pm. SuperSport is the only place to get English commentary from the legendary La Liga.  The meeting of champions Juventus and Napoli at 7:45pm is the outstanding match for this round of Serie A with the Neapolitans hoping to lay down a statement of intent in their match in Turin on Sunday night. One player manager Gennaro Gattuso will be looking to is Nigerian striker Victor Osimhen, with the 21-year-old saying that he is thrilled to represent the same club that the legendary Diego Maradona represented all those years ago.  Earlier the same Sunday at 2pm, we will see Lazio welcome Internazionale to the Stadio Olimpico in a battle between two teams who will be gunning to win Serie A this term. Parma vs Hella Verona and Benevento vs Bologna will also air at 2pm.  On Friday, Fiorentina will meet with Sampdoria at 7:45pm and on Saturday, Serie A continues with Sassuolu vs Crotone at 2pm, Genoa vs Torino at 5pm, Udenese vs Roma at 7:45pm. All Serie A fixtures will air live on SuperSport Football, SuperSport Variety 3 and SuperSport GOtv Select 1  Don’t miss the 2020-21 football season on SuperSport on DStv and GOtv.  For the full football experience, reconnect or subscribe to any of these packages; DStv Premium, Compact Plus, Compact, Confam & Yanga and GOtv Max & Jolli for selected matches. Also, visit www.dstvafrica.com and www.gotvafrica.com and download the MyDStv app or MyGOtv app from the iOS and Android store to upgrade, reconnect or select the Auto-Renewal option to stay connected to quality football entertainment without interruptions and for other self-service options. And while you’re on the move, you can stream matches on DStv Now.