FRAMEWORK FOR FINANCING OF NATIONAL MASS METERING PROGRAMME (NMMP) 01   Introduction The introduction of the service-based tariff (SBT) in the Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) effective from 1st September 2020 has put increased emphasis on the need to close the metering gap in the NESI. The closing of this gap will enhance efficiency of revenue collection by Distribution Companies (DisCos) and thereby facilitate meeting their obligations to other upstream market participants. According to analysis provided by Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), the current metering gap in the NESI – based on recent customer enumeration data – is over 10 million, this comprises of unmetered customers as well as customers with obsolete meters that need to be replaced. To deal with this, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari approved the National Mass Metering Program (NMMP) implementation. This Framework outlines the operational modalities of the CBN financing support to the DisCos (Downstream) and Local Meter Manufacturers (Upstream). 02 Objectives The key objectives of the NMMP are:  3.0 This framework is sub-divide into three sections namely:  SECTION A: ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION COMPANIES 4.0 Definition A NERC licensed Electricity Distribution Company (DisCo) or body corporate engaged in:  4.1 Eligible Activities The NMMP CBN facility is restricted to the procurement and deployment of meters and the associated infrastructure (software and hardware) to support the metering network. These include, but not limited to:  4.2 Prohibited Activities iii)     Importation of related metering infrastructure that are currently being produced in the country is also prohibited.  4.3 Participating Financial Institutions (PFI) Financial institutions licensed by the CBN to provide banking services in Nigeria.  5.0 Modalities/ Types of Facilities  5.1 Tenor The facility granted shall have a maximum tenor of 10 years but not exceeding 2030  5.2 Moratorium There shall be a moratorium on the principal amount for a period not exceeding 24 months from date of loan disbursement.  5.3 Interest Rate The facility shall be administered at an “all-in” interest rate of NOT more than 9 per cent per annum or any other rate as may be specified by CBN. As part of the Bank’s Covid-19 relief package, the interest rate to be charged up to 28th February 2021 shall not exceed 5 per cent per annum. Interest shall be payable by the loan beneficiaries in accordance with the approved repayment schedule outlined in the Transaction Documents. The “all-in” interest rate of 9% to be shared as follows: a) Participating Financial Institution – 6% b) Sponsor (CBN) – 3% PFIs are to remit the interest due to the CBN on quarterly basis not later than 10 days after the end of the quarter.  5.4 Collateral Requirement NERC’s approval of a DisCos loan request as a regulated debt obligation to be charged against all energy collections for the Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) as the next line charge in the payment waterfalls of each DisCo below the existing payment to the Nigeria Electricity Market Stabilization Facility (NEMSF), will serve as a collateral for the lending.  6.0 The financing of the bulk procurement of Meters by the Electricity Distribution Companies is covered under phase 0 and phase 1.  6.1 Phase 0 – Financing of orders covered under the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) programme.  6.2 Amount to be Accessed To be determined based on the volume and type of meters to be procured by the DisCo for the contracted MAP.  6.3 Documents Required  6.4 Application Procedure  vii) For the purpose of payment to the MAP by each DisCo’s Bank Guarantee (BG) bank, DisCos will submit NERC approved Meter Service Agreement(s) signed with MAPs, payment invoice for the Meters to be purchased and a performance bond from the MAP linked to installation of volumes to be purchased. viii)The MAP’s performance bond will be issued jointly to the DisCo and the PFI ix) BG Bank to make payment to MAPs only based on terms contained in the submissions made by the DisCos.  6.5; Phase 1 (CBN funded bulk procurement from local meter manufacturers/assemblers) (CBN funded bulk procurement from local meter manufacturers/assemblers)  6.6 Amount to be Accessed To be determined based on the volume and type of meters to be procured by each DisCo as well as the prices at which meters are bought during the bulk procurement.  6.7 Documents Required: iii) Invoice (including the bank details of the vendor);  6.8 Application Procedure   SECTION B: LOCAL METER MANUFACTURERS  7.0 Definition A local meter manufacturer is hereby defined as any company or body corporate engaged in:  7.2 Eligible Activities iii) Procurement of production data management and software systems  7.3 Prohibited Activities  The facility shall NOT be used to finance the importation of fully assembled meters  7.4 Eligibility Criteria The eligible obligors should demonstrate verifiable evidences of: (a) Brownfield – Eligible manufacturers must demonstrate a track record of experience in manufacturing of key meter components up to the quality standards instituted by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and/or Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) and/or Standards Organizations of Nigeria (SON).  (b) Greenfield – Bankable business plans acceptable to the PFIs. iii) Local content: Eligible component manufacturers are Nigerian-owned entities or consortiums involving a minimum of 70% local ownership.  7.5 Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) Financial institutions licensed by the CBN to provide banking services in Nigeria.  8.0 Modalities/Types of Facilities  8.1 Term Loan  8.2 Amount to be Accessed Funding shall not exceed 70 percent of the total cost of the applicable costs/expenses related to meter manufacturing/assembly  8.3 Tenor The facilities granted shall have a maximum tenor of up to 10 years as determined by the project’s cash flow profile but not exceeding 31st December 2030.  8.4 Moratorium The moratorium on principal shall depend on the type and nature of the project but shall not exceed 2 years or the construction/ completion period.  8.5 Working Capital Working capital facility shall be for one year with provision for roll-over not more than twice (i. e. maximum tenor of 3 years).  8.3 Interest Rate The facility shall be administered at an “all-in” interest rate of NOT more than 9 per cent per annum or any other rate as may be specified by CBN.. As part of the Bank’s Covid-19 relief package, the interest rate to be charged up to 28th February 2021 shall not exceed 5 per cent per annum. Interest shall be payable by the loan beneficiaries in accordance with the approved repayment schedule outlined in the Transaction Documents. The “all-in” interest rate of 9% to be shared as follows: PFIs are to remit the interest due to the CBN on quarterly basis not later than 10 days after the end of the quarter.  9.0 Application Procedure  9.1 Documents Required Required documentation for the obligor to access funding includes: iii) Certified True Copy of MEMART  SECTION C: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS  10.0 Responsibilities of Stakeholders  10.1 Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) The Central Bank of Nigeria shall: iii) Monitor and evaluate implementation of the Scheme iv) Review the Guidelines of the Facility as may be necessary  10.3 Participating Financial Institutions The Participating Financial Institutions shall: iii) Bear the credit risk  10.4 Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC)  NERC shall: iii) Monitor meter deployment and validate quality and quantity specifications  10.5 Borrowers (DisCos and Manufacturers)  The Borrowers shall, with respect to this Scheme: iii) Insure the project being financed by a reputable Insurance Company  11.0 Sanctions arising from Infractions iii) In the event of default in loan repayment (principal and interest), the PFIs shall have the right to charge commercial interest rate on the amount of default  12.0 Discontinuation of Credit Facility Whenever a loan is repaid or the facility is otherwise discontinued, the PFIs shall advise the CBN immediately, giving particulars of the credit facility.  Enquiries The Director, Development Finance Department Central Bank of Nigeria, Abuja. October 2020