It’s Matchday 1 from the 2020/21 UEFA Champions League and DStv and GOtv subscribers are not left out of this action, all airing live on SuperSport from Tuesday 20 to Wednesday 21 October 2020  The pick of matches today is the meeting of Paris Saint-Germain and Manchester United in the French capital, airing at 8:00pm live on SuperSport Grandstand, with the hosts desperate to avenge their controversial exit at the hands of the 2018-19 Champions League round of 16 at the hands of the Red Devils.  However, it’s been a tough start to the new season for PSG and manager, Tomas Tuchel says a lack of signings makes their chances of repeating last season UCL success – when they reached the final and narrowly lost to Bayern Munich – a tough task.  Tuesday also sees heavyweights such as Juventus, Chelsea, Sevilla, Lazio, Borussia Dortmund and Barcelona in action, with Zenit St Petersburg vs Club Brugge airing at 5:55pm live on SS Variety 2, Dynamo Kyiv vs Juventus also at 5:55pm live on SS Premier League. From 8:00pm Chelsea vs Sevilla will air live on SS Variety1, while Rennes vs Krasnodar will air on SS La Liga and SS GOtv La Liga and then Barcelona vs Ferencvaros on SS Action  The headline match for Wednesday 21 October is Bayen Munich vs Atletico, as Bayern Munich opens the defence of their title with a home clash against Atletico Madrid, to air live at 8:00pm on SS Variety 1. The German side will look to African-born Canadian international Alphonso Davies to once again inspire with his pace and composure from the wingback position.  Wednesday also features a potential thriller between Ajax and Liverpool in Amsterdam, with the Reds hoping to quell the threat of a young and hungry Dutch side which so impressed in this competition a couple of seasons back. Subscribers can watch this live on SS Premier League at 8:00pm.  Football lovers also get to watch other Champions League matches on Wednesday as RB Salzburg will clash with Lokomotiv Moscow at 5:55pm live on SS Variety 1, Also Real Madrid vs Shakhtar Donetsk at 5:55pm on SS Premier League. The matches scheduled for 8:00pm are Internazionale vs Borussia Monchengladbach on SS Variety 2, Manchester City vs Porto on SS Action, Olympiakos vs Olympique Marseille on SS Variety 3 and Midtjylland vs Atalanta on SS La Liga and SS GOtv La Liga SuperSport remains the preferred platform for football lovers and DStv and GOtv customers get to see all their favourite stars from the African Continent dominating matches in the UEFA Champions League. Don’t miss the 2020-21 football season on SuperSport on DStv and GOtv. For the full football experience, reconnect or subscribe to any of these packages; DStv Premium, Compact Plus, Compact, Confam & Yanga and GOtv Max & Jolli for selected matches. Also, visit www.dstvafrica.com and www.gotvafrica.com and download the MyDStv app or MyGOtv app from the iOS and Android store to upgrade, reconnect or select the Auto-Renewal option to stay connected to quality football entertainment without interruptions and for other self-service options. And while you’re on the move, you can stream matches on the DStv App.