GOkids get to watch a wide range of fun-filled and exciting top-notch kiddies’ content this week on GOtv!  GOtv customers get to enjoy educational programmes, arts & crafts and exciting adventures from Disney Junior, Jim Jam, Cartoon Network, PBS Kids, Da Vinci Kids and Nickelodeon!  These channels feature some of the world’s best-loved pre-school TV characters for kids and even parents to enjoy. Here are 5 unmissable shows to keep the kids entertained this week: Pinkalicious & Peterrific: Pinkalicious imagines creative possibilities everywhere she looks. She is an artist at heart and like most creative people, she sees the world differently from others. On this episode, ‘All Tangled Up/Above the Clouds’, an ordering mishap leaves Pinkville with balls of yarn instead of flower bulbs. It’s up to Pinkalicious to use the yarn to make the park pinkatastic! Catch this on PBS kids (GOtv Channel 65) on Wednesday, 14th October at 12:50pm. The Amazing World of Gumball: This series is about a young cat named Gumball Watterson. Gumball has a fondness for getting into trouble, often resulting from schemes he comes up with, but he never seems to learn his lesson. Catch this on Cartoon Network (GOtv Channel 67) Wednesday, 14th October at 1:00pm The Adventure of Chuck and Friends: ‘The Big Air Dare’ episode will see Chuck and his friends push the limits of their imagination through building, while remembering how important it is to have fun with your friends. Don’t miss this on Wednesday, 14th October on Jim Jam (GOtv Channel 61) at 1:08pm. The History of Art: For kids who love art, history of art is a series that centers around key movements in art history through a mixture of animation and great paintings. From political revolutions to social movements, it illustrates how art both captures the spirit of the times and envisions future developments. Tune in to Da Vinci (GOtv Channel 66) Wednesday, 14th October at 4:55pm Blaze and the Monster Machines: In this episode, Gabby is the mechanic all the Monster Machines in town count on to fix them up. But when Crusher steals all her tools, Gabby needs Blaze’s help to get them back! Showing on Nickelodeon (GOtv Channel 62) Friday, 16th October at 3:30pm You can visit www.gotvafrica.com or download MyGOtv app which is available to iOS and Android users to upgrade or reconnect and for other self-service options and join in on the excitement. Follow GOtv on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook to find out more entertaining movies and TV series.