The newly-appointed Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Transportation, Dr. Magdalene Ajani today in Abuja commended the
Nigerian Shippers Council for its promotion of the establishment of
Vehicle Transit Areas (VTA) amongst other initiatives aimed at trade
facilitation to boost the nation’s economy and delivering high quality
service to shippers.
Dr. Ajani who spoke in response to the briefing she received from the
ES/CEO of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council, who led a team of top
management staff to the Federal Ministry of Transportation, expressed
delight about the achievements of the Council and encouraged the
management to press ahead with the impressive work they are doing,
assuring them of the Ministry’s support.
In his presentation, the ES spoke about the various ongoing projects and
initiatives that the Council has embarked upon. He told the permanent
secretary about the push for 24-hour port operations, efforts to address
congestion at the ports and multimodal transportation of goods to and
from the ports and digitalization. He also spoke about challenges,
particularly resistance to regulation. On the VTAs, Dr. Ajani was particularly excited about the prospect of
the actualization of VTAs in various parts of Nigeria leading to a
significant reduction of road traffic accidents. She said the VTAs would
create sanity on the roads while generating employment.
The National Single Window according to her is very important for the
development of the maritime sector in Nigeria as it will ease the
business of shipping.
The permanent secretary commended heads of maritime agencies their
monthly meeting during which issues within the industry are discussed
exhaustively with a view to finding solutions. She said the Ministry
expects synergy and collaboration amongst all the agencies under its
supervision in order to deliver on the mandate of President Muhammadu
Buhari. She promised that the Ministry would assist Shippers’ Council
to actualize its goals. She pointed out the importance of further synergy
between the Nigerian Railway Corporation and Shippers Council in
progressing transportation of containers to and from the ports.