The Nigerian Stock Exchange (“NSE” or “The Exchange”) is set to host a financial services webinar on Thursday, 8 October 2020.  With the theme, The Future of the Financial Services Industry Post COVID-19, the webinar will bring together market stakeholders to share valuable experiences in managing the impact of the pandemic, as well as discuss the future of the Nigerian financial market, with the goal of charting a route to a sustainable future. Interested participants can register to attend at http://bit.ly/nse-financial-webinar.  The event will be headlined by the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, CON and the Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mr. Lamido Yuguda. It will feature a stellar line-up of speakers across the public and private sectors to discuss emerging financial stability risks, the evolving public policy response, and long-term challenges for the financial system.  Speaking about the webinar, the Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar N. Onyema, OON, noted that, “The world is facing unprecedented challenges occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic. Considering this, the global financial system remains an area of potential risk, with record levels of market volatility and growing concern around credit losses and its attendant impact on overall asset quality, capital and liquidity. Governments, regulators, and international organizations have moved rapidly to address the economic collapse and financial fallout, but questions remain around how policy should continue to evolve to preserve financial stability. With this webinar, we envision that the insights gathered will lead to actionable solutions, policies and measures that can mitigate current and emerging financial stability risks.”  Some of the other confirmed speakers for the event include Ms. Aishah Ahmad, Deputy Governor, CBN; Mr. Mitchell Elegbe, MD/CEO, Interswitch; Mr. Bolaji Balogun, CEO, Chapel Hill Denham; Mr. Kunle Elebute, Managing Partner, KPMG Nigeria; Prof. Yinka David- West, Academic Director, Information Systems & Digital Transformation, Lagos Business School; Mr. Chinua Azubike, MD/CEO, InfraCredit; and Mr. Eric Idaihi, Partner/Co-Founder, Verod Capital. 