…Explains  its      process       for     procurement         and distribution of palliatives  Members of the Private Sector-led Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) wishes to call for calm, amidst the looting of COVID-19 palliatives meant for distribution in various State Government warehouses across the country. In a statement endorsed by Osita Nwasinobi, The Director, Corporate Communications Department of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on behalf of the CACOVID management and made available to The AmehNews saying The Coalition is deeply concerned by the recent events and is urging those involved in the wanton destruction of Public and Private Properties to immediately desist from these raids, in order to allow the States to proceed with peaceful and fair distribution of these palliatives to the neediest and most vulnerable in our society.  Nwasinobi said over the last few months, the Private Sector tI1rougI› CACOVID has been working with all State Governors, the FCT Minister, and the Nigerian Governors’ Forum to procure, deliver and distribute these food relief items to almost 2 million most vulnerable families (over 10 million Nigerians) across the 774 LGAs in the country, as part of the private sector’s support to the national response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  He pointed out that the sheer scale of this nationwide food programme and the timing of the orders and deliveries, which coincided with the lockdowns and reduced movement across the country, compelled CACOVID to roll out distribution in a staggered manner, with States classified in three timed phases, to enable orderly delivery to the needy.  At the time CACOVID embarked on the palliatives effort in April, according to him, we decided to procure the food directly from the manufacturers, to avoid a distortion of prices in the market. The food package was designed such that each of the nearly 2 million vulnerable families received: 10kg bag of rice, Skg bag of garri/maize flour/semolina, 1 carton of pasta, 2 cartons of noodles, Skg of sugar and 1kg of salt.  Unfortunately, he noted that the very large size of the order, and the production. cycle required to meet the demand, caused delays in delivering the food items to the States in an expeditious manner; hence the resulting delay in delivery of the food palliatives by the State Governors .  “For instance, Rice had to be milled, semolina and maize flour had to be processed, noodles and pasta had to be manufactured, and sugar had to be refined.  “As such, the first deliveries could not start until June. However, as of October 2020, a sizable portion of the items had been delivered but yet to be distributed by the Governors. Although various States and the FCT had commenced flag- off of the distribution of the food items since early August, some could not conclude the distribution as they were yet to receive complete deliveries of the items allotted to them. In the interest of transparency and accountability, CACOVID will, in due course be providing the full delivery schedule and flag-off dates by each state, he added.   Prior to these events, he said CACOVID had worked with the States through the Nigerian Governors’ Forum to determine:  iii)     the composition of the State and Local Government Committees (including CSOs, religious organisations, LGA Chairpersons, Ward Leaders, media representatives, security services, CACOVID representatives); and    Given that the States and Local Government authorities oversee all relief efforts in their jurisdictions at….know their citizens best, we had worked with each Governor and the Minister of the FCT, utilising a combination of our protocols and their existing structures and processes to ensure food items reach the intended beneficiaries. We have also appointed an independent monitoring team to ensure that the items would be delivered as intended.  Nwasinobi further stated that we are aware that official flagging-off and handover of the palliatives has taken place in 2d States and the FCT, and State governments have been distributing at various paces. As of today, October 26, 2020, some States have confirmed completion of their distribution while others were in the process of proceeding with the distribution before these looting took place, he noted. By these looting incidents, it there meant that some intended beneficiaries had been deprived the opportunity of benefitting from CACOVID’s good intentions, he disclosed.  “In line with our earlier promise, KPMG Professional Services, our external auditors are at the verge of completing the audit of all contributions from our donors; as well as a listing of all medical and food items procured with these funds. We will be sharing the external audit reports of our spending, alongside a full report of CACOVID activities, including delivery and planned flag-off dates of our donations to Nigerians.  “It is very unfortunate that various States, including States that have concluded the distribution of their allocations, are seeing their warehouses and other premises being raided. It must also be noted that not every warehouse in Nigeria that contains palliatives is affiliated with the CACOVID donation, given that the States themselves, the Federal Government and .other organisations have also made donations.  The director in CBN said “In light of these unsavoury developments, we would like to appeal for calm, and for States to be allowed to proceed with their palliatives distribution peacefully, even as each State will undoubtedly keep its citizens abreast of the distribution process to ensure transparency, accountability, and equity.  We urge all to be law-abiding, to be our brothers’ and sisters’ keepers, and to end the raiding of these warehouses.”  He therefore concluded saying The Coalition disavows, and urges the public to disregard, any unauthorised sources of information regarding the current issue. CACOVID confirms this platform as the only one authorised to communicate on behalf of the group.