As sport activities across the world intensifies after the four-month interruption, many sport fans want to watch their favourite athletes and teams excel and provide entertainment and bragging rights. In an age where information and events move at lightning speed and everything seems to be “on the go”, keeping tabs on all games from the various sport events has taken a new dimension courtesy of technological inventions, particularly in a pandemic period. With more sporting events now occurring on a more frequent basis and as sport fans are being occupied and transiting from one point to another, there is the need to maintain a balance to ensure that the subscribers do not miss their favourite games. The broadcast of live sport events on Showmax Pro can, therefore, be said to be a timely one. Showmax Pro is a new video-on-demand entertainment service available for Showmax subscribers in Nigeria that bundles the existing Showmax entertainment offering with music channels, news and live sports streaming from SuperSport. At a period when Nigerians are being encouraged to keep social distance and avoid crowded viewing centres, Showmax Pro allows sport fans to watch various live sporting activities such as the Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Premier Soccer League (PSL) “on the go” from the comfort of wherever they may be. Also, the service broadcasts a wide range of live sport events including IAAF athletics meet, professional boxing, and the world’s biggest marathons, as well as magazine shows and documentaries that cover various sports and recent sport highlights. The Premier League, Serie A, PSL and La Liga games, IAAF athletics, boxing and major international marathons are live exclusively on Showmax Pro and Showmax Pro Mobile. Also, music channels such as Trace Urban and Trace Gospel, and Africa News, Euronews and Newzroom Afrika newsroom channels will be accessible to subscribers exclusively on Showmax Pro and Showmax Pro Mobile. Sport fans can also access various sporting events on Showmax Pro Mobile, a mobile-only service for smartphones and tablets featuring all the Showmax content, but at half the cost of the standard Showmax service, while consuming less data. Subscribers can stream Showmax Pro concurrently on two devices, while Showmax Pro Mobile can be viewed on only one device at a time. Showmax Pro can be viewed in High Definition on Smart TV, laptop, Android TV, Apple TV apps, while Showmax Pro can be viewed in Standard Definition on smartphones and tablets apps. New and existing subscribers can access Showmax Pro for N6,300, while Showmax Pro Mobile can be accessed for N3,200. With such a loaded programme schedule, there is no other streaming service to remain hooked to for all the top sporting action and coverage than Showmax Pro. So, sport fans can, therefore, join in and watch their favourite athletes, players and teams hunt hard to claim the ultimate glory and bask in a sumptuous dish of mouth-watering sport content exclusively on Showmax Pro from the comfort of wherever they may be – at home, at the office and school.