SIFAX Group, a conglomerate with investments in Maritime, Aviation, Logistics, Oil & Gas, Hospitality and Financial Services sectors, said its new terminal, which would be a model and sits on an 11 acres of land, will leverage on technology and innovations to deliver an unparalleled customer experience as well as cutting-edge inland container services.L-R: Princess Vicky Haastrup, Executive Vice Chairman, ENL Consortium and Chairperson, Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN);  John Jenkins, Managing Director, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited and Paul Vd Linden, Managing Director, SIFAX Container Terminal at the commissioning and unveiling of the new SIFAX Container Terminal, Ijora Causeway, Lagos Speaking at the formal commissioning of the facility situated along the Ebute Metta Creek, Ijora, Lagos, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, said the company decided to invest in the facility to make the process of cargo clearing a wonderful experience as opposed to what is obtainable currently. Afolabi, who was represented by Mr. Adekunle Oyinloye, Group Managing Director, SIFAX Group, said the new terminal, which would be a model and sits on an 11 acres of land, will leverage on technology and innovations to deliver an unparalleled customer experience as well as cutting-edge inland container services. He said: “The SIFAX Container Terminal, Ijora, Lagos is our modest response to a major issue in the maritime industry – access to Lagos ports. The logistics nightmare in Apapa occasioned by the traffic congestion experienced by port users compelled the group to look for a solution that addresses thus seemingly intractable problem. With this terminal, agents, truckers and consignees don’t have to go to the ports before getting their consignments cleared.” The managing director pointed out that opened a new container terminal in Lagos as a response to the difficulties experienced by stakeholders in accessing the Lagos ports. On the unique advantages of the terminal, Afolabi said consignment would be transferred primarily through barges from both Apapa and Tin Can Island ports, adding that the good road network in the area also offers clients faster and efficient cargo clearing.  “Another key advantage of this terminal is that it is IT-driven. The Group has decided to invest in technology to sustain the business to our clients’ satisfaction.” Afolabi further said. Earlier, in his business presentation, Paul Linden expressed the readiness of the terminal to exceed the expectations of clients through the acquisition of modern cargo equipment and deployment of an experienced and professional workforce backed by the over three-decade experience of SIFAX Group in the maritime industry. Ms. HadizaBala Usman, Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority, who was represented by Hon. Onari Brown, Executive Director, Marine and Operations, commended SIFAX Group for its solution-driven mindset and aggressiveness in pursuing the dream of getting the terminal ready for operations in record time. She promised the support and cooperation of the agency in realizing the vision of the new business. Princess Vicky Haastrup, Executive Vice Chairman, ENL Consortium and Chairman, Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN) lauded SIFAX Group for always being at the forefront of innovations in the country’s maritime sector. High ranking dignitaries such as Oba FataiOyeyinka, Ojora of Ijora land; Hakeem Odumosu, Commissioner of Police, Lagos; Adewale Adeyanju, President General, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) and Mohammed Abba Kura, Customs Area Controller, Apapa Command graced the occasion. 