A group under the aegis Organized Private Sector of Nigeria (OPSN) condemns the violence, looting, and burning of properties and destruction of infrastructure across the country.  The Organized Private Sector of Nigeria (OPSN) consisting of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN); Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME); Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA); and Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI) in the statement released and endorsed by Hajia Saratu Iya Aliyu, Chairperson of the group saying we, members of the OPSN condemns the violence, looting, and burning of properties and destruction of infrastructure across the country.  Hajia Saratu Iya Aliyu is the MD/CEO of Sarat Group of Companies, National President of NACCIMA and Chairperson of the OPSN recalled that A peaceful protest by youths which was started by the #ENDSARS Group, about two weeks ago has regrettably been hijacked by thugs, hoodlums and miscreants.  Aliyu made it cleared that as members of the OPSN we are saddened by the scores of deaths across the country and commiserate with families of those who have died from these violent protests and looting by thugs, miscreants and hoodlums. These deaths are regrettable and they should not have occurred if the crisis had been handled properly from the onset, she added.  “We must all therefore work to end the atmosphere of anarchy which is evolving and which we are witnessing. We are therefore calling on the Police, the National Civil Defense Corps and other relevant security agencies to do all in their power to put an end to the crisis.  OPSN Chairperson noted that the impact of the ongoing crisis on the economy has been devastating. According to her billions of Naira have been lost as a result of attacks on businesses; many are on the verge of losing their livelihoods. While properties, factories and infrastructure across the nation have been destroyed with innocent citizens bearing the brunt of the outcome, she said.  “As members of the OPSN, we are shocked at the scale of criminality, destruction and looting now being experienced. We are deeply saddened by this development especially after working assiduously with all stakeholders, on the most appropriate way to rebuild our economy which had been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.  Mrs Aliyu noted that restoration of peace and security is now an immediate priority, without which local and foreign investors will be deterred while disclosed that the OPSN is ready to work with all stakeholders in the private sector, government at all levels and other peace-loving Nigerians to restore peace and order.  “We also The Organized Private Sector of Nigeria (OPSN) Calls for an end to Violence, and Looting across the Nation: Calls for Dialogue as way for Peace and Security and to save the Economy and Nation call on the youths to join in this assignment. This is not just for the sake of the economy but for the survival of our nation, the security of lives and the safety of property, she worries.  “It is also to enable us create the necessary environment for dialogue and for strategic options to meet the legitimate demands of the youths for jobs and to open other economic and entrepreneurial opportunities for them.  She reiterated that through frank dialogue and in an atmosphere of peace, let us all therefore rise up to an historic duty which is now beckoning on us. It is our national duty to restore peace and security, ensure safety of lives and properties; as well prevent the collapse of our economy at this juncture in the history of our nation, she added.  